When I was in my 20s, I saw my very first psychotherapy client.
 I was a Ph.D. student in clinical psychology at Berkeley.
 She was a 26-year-old woman named Alex.
 Now when I heard this, I was so relieved.
 My classmate got an arsonist for her first client.
 And I got a twentysomething who wanted to talk about boys.
 This I thought I could handle.
 But I didn't handle it.
 "Thirty's the new 20," Alex would say, and as far as I could tell, she was right.
 Work happened later, marriage happened later, kids happened later, even death happened later.
 Twentysomethings like Alex and I had nothing but time.
 But before long, my supervisor pushed me to push Alex about her love life.
 I pushed back.
 I said, "Sure, she's dating down, she's sleeping with a knucklehead, but it's not like she's going to marry the guy."
 And then my supervisor said, "Not yet, but she might marry the next one.
 Besides, the best time to work on Alex's marriage is before she has one."
 That's what psychologists call an "Aha!" moment.
 That was the moment I realized, 30 is not the new 20.
 Yes, people settle down later than they used to, but that didn't make Alex's 20s a developmental downtime.
 That made Alex's 20s a developmental sweet spot, and we were sitting there blowing it.
 There are 50 million twentysomethings in the United States right now.
 Raise your hand if you're in your 20s.
 I really want to see some twentysomethings here.
 Oh, yay! Y'all's awesome.
 This is not my opinion. These are the facts.
 We know that 80 percent of life's most defining moments take place by age 35.
 People who are over 40, don't panic.
 This crowd is going to be fine, I think.
 We know that the first 10 years of a career has an exponential impact on how much money you're going to earn.
 We know that more than half of Americans are married or are living with or dating their future partner by 30.
 So your 20s are the time to educate yourself about your body and your options.
 So when we think about child development, we all know that the first five years are a critical period for language and attachment in the brain.
 It's a time when your ordinary, day-to-day life has an inordinate impact on who you will become.
 But what we hear less about is that there's such a thing as adult development, and our 20s are that critical period of adult development.
 But this isn't what twentysomethings are hearing.
 Newspapers talk about the changing timetable of adulthood.
 Researchers call the 20s an extended adolescence.
 Journalists coin silly nicknames for twentysomethings like "twixters" and "kidults."
 It's true.
 As a culture, we have trivialized what is actually the defining decade of adulthood.
 Leonard Bernstein said that to achieve great things, you need a plan and not quite enough time.
 Isn't that true?
 Nothing happens.
 You have robbed that person of his urgency and ambition, and absolutely nothing happens.
 Or they say, "Everybody says as long as I get started on a career by the time I'm 30, I'll be fine."
 But then it starts to sound like this: "My 20s are almost over, and I have nothing to show for myself.
 I had a better résumé the day after I graduated from college."
 And then it starts to sound like this: "Dating in my 20s was like musical chairs.
 Everybody was running around and having fun, but then sometime around 30 it was like the music turned off and everybody started sitting down.
 Where are the twentysomethings here?
 Do not do that.
 Okay, now that sounds a little flip, but make no mistake, the stakes are very high.
 Many of these things are incompatible, and as research is just starting to show, simply harder and more stressful to do all at once in our 30s.
 The post-millennial midlife crisis isn't buying a red sports car.
 It's realizing you can't have that career you now want.
 It's realizing you can't have that child you now want, or you can't give your child a sibling.
 I want to change what twentysomethings are doing and thinking.
 Here's a story about how that can go.
 It's a story about a woman named Emma.
 At 25, Emma came to my office because she was, in her words, having an identity crisis.
 Because it was cheaper, she lived with a boyfriend who displayed his temper more than his ambition.
 And as hard as her 20s were, her early life had been even harder.
 She often cried in our sessions, but then would collect herself by saying, "You can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends."
 Well one day, Emma comes in and she hangs her head in her lap, and she sobbed for most of the hour.
 She was nearly hysterical when she looked at me and said, "Who's going to be there for me if I get in a car wreck?
 Who's going to take care of me if I have cancer?"
 Now in that moment, it took everything I had not to say, "I will."
 But what Emma needed wasn't some therapist who really, really cared.
 Emma needed a better life, and I knew this was her chance.
 So over the next weeks and months, I told Emma three things that every twentysomething, male or female, deserves to hear.
 First, I told Emma to forget about having an identity crisis and get some identity capital.
 By get identity capital, I mean do something that adds value to who you are.
 Do something that's an investment in who you might want to be next.
 So now is the time for that cross-country job, that internship, that startup you want to try.
 That's procrastination.
 I told Emma to explore work and make it count.
 Second, I told Emma that the urban tribe is overrated.
 That new piece of capital, that new person to date almost always comes from outside the inner circle.
 New things come from what are called our weak ties, our friends of friends of friends.
 So yes, half of twentysomethings are un- or under-employed.
 But half aren't, and weak ties are how you get yourself into that group.
 Half of new jobs are never posted, so reaching out to your neighbor's boss is how you get that un-posted job.
 It's not cheating. It's the science of how information spreads.
 Last but not least, Emma believed that you can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends.
 I told Emma the time to start picking your family is now.
 Now you may be thinking that 30 is actually a better time to settle down than 20, or even 25, and I agree with you.
 But grabbing whoever you're living with or sleeping with when everyone on Facebook starts walking down the aisle is not progress.
 So what happened to Emma?
 Well, we went through that address book, and she found an old roommate's cousin who worked at an art museum in another state.
 That weak tie helped her get a job there.
 That job offer gave her the reason to leave that live-in boyfriend.
 Now, five years later, she's a special events planner for museums.
 She's married to a man she mindfully chose.
 Now Emma's story made that sound easy, but that's what I love about working with twentysomethings.
 They are so easy to help.
 Twentysomethings are like airplanes just leaving LAX, bound for somewhere west.
 Right after takeoff, a slight change in course is the difference between landing in Alaska or Fiji.
 So here's an idea worth spreading to every twentysomething you know.
 It's as simple as what I learned to say to Alex.
 Don't be defined by what you didn't know or didn't do.
 You're deciding your life right now.
 Thank you.
 But I wondered, what if there could be no boundary at all?
 I started to imagine what this would look like.
 Designers can materialize their ideas directly in 3D, and surgeons can practice on virtual organs underneath the screen.
 So with this tool, this boundary has been broken.
 But our two hands still remain outside the screen.
 How can you reach inside and interact with the digital information using the full dexterity of our hands?
 Because windows and files have a position in the real space, selecting them is as easy as grabbing a book off your shelf.
 Then you can flip through this book while highlighting the lines, words on the virtual touch pad below each floating window.
 Architects can stretch or rotate the models with their two hands directly.
 So in these examples, we are reaching into the digital world.
 But how about reversing its role and having the digital information reach us instead?
 I'm sure many of us have had the experience of buying and returning items online.
 But now you don't have to worry about it.
 What I got here is an online augmented fitting room.
 This is a view that you get from head-mounted or see-through display when the system understands the geometry of your body.
 What would such a future look like?
 At MIT Media Lab, along with my advisor Hiroshi Ishii and my collaborator Rehmi Post, we created this one physical pixel.
 Thank you.
 So I was trained to become a gymnast for two years in Hunan, China in the 1970s.
 When I was in the first grade, the government wanted to transfer me to a school for athletes, all expenses paid.
 But my tiger mother said, "No."
 My parents wanted me to become an engineer like them.
 After surviving the Cultural Revolution, they firmly believed there's only one sure way to happiness: a safe and well-paid job.
 It is not important if I like the job or not.
 But my dream was to become a Chinese opera singer.
 That is me playing my imaginary piano.
 An opera singer must start training young to learn acrobatics, so I tried everything I could to go to opera school.
 I even wrote to the school principal and the host of a radio show.
 But no adults liked the idea.
 No adults believed I was serious.
 Only my friends supported me, but they were kids, just as powerless as I was.
 So at age 15, I knew I was too old to be trained.
 My dream would never come true.
 I was afraid that for the rest of my life some second-class happiness would be the best I could hope for.
 But that's so unfair.
 So I was determined to find another calling.
 Nobody around to teach me? Fine.
 I turned to books.
 ["Complete Works of Sanmao" ] ["Lessons From History" by Nan Huaijin] I came to the U.S. in 1995, so which books did I read here first?
 Books banned in China, of course.
 "The Good Earth" is about Chinese peasant life.
 That's just not convenient for propaganda. Got it.
 The Bible is interesting, but strange.
 That's a topic for a different day.
 But the fifth commandment gave me an epiphany: "You shall honor your father and mother."
 "Honor," I said. "That's so different, and better, than obey."
 So it becomes my tool to climb out of this Confucian guilt trap and to restart my relationship with my parents.
 Encountering a new culture also started my habit of comparative reading.
 It offers many insights.
 For example, I found this map out of place at first because this is what Chinese students grew up with.
 It had never occurred to me, China doesn't have to be at the center of the world.
 A map actually carries somebody's view.
 Comparative reading actually is nothing new.
 It's a standard practice in the academic world.
 There are even research fields such as comparative religion and comparative literature.
 Compare and contrast gives scholars a more complete understanding of a topic.
 So I thought, well, if comparative reading works for research, why not do it in daily life too?
 So I started reading books in pairs.
 For the Christ, the temptations are economic, political and spiritual.
 For the Buddha, they are all psychological: lust, fear and social duty -- interesting.
 So if you know a foreign language, it's also fun to read your favorite books in two languages.
 For example, it's through translation that I realized "happiness" in Chinese literally means "fast joy." Huh!
 "Bride" in Chinese literally means "new mother." Uh-oh.
 Books have given me a magic portal to connect with people of the past and the present.
 I know I shall never feel lonely or powerless again.
 Having a dream shattered really is nothing compared to what many others have suffered.
 I have come to believe that coming true is not the only purpose of a dream.
 Its most important purpose is to get us in touch with where dreams come from, where passion comes from, where happiness comes from.
 Even a shattered dream can do that for you.
 So because of books, I'm here today, happy, living again with a purpose and a clarity, most of the time.
 So may books be always with you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So when I was eight years old, a new girl came to join the class, and she was so impressive, as the new girl always seems to be.
 She had vast quantities of very shiny hair and a cute little pencil case, super strong on state capitals, just a great speller.
 And I just curdled with jealousy that year, until I hatched my devious plan.
 So one day I stayed a little late after school, a little too late, and I lurked in the girls' bathroom.
 When the coast was clear, I emerged, crept into the classroom, and took from my teacher's desk the grade book.
 And then I did it.
 I fiddled with my rival's grades, just a little, just demoted some of those A's.
 All of those A's.
 And I got ready to return the book to the drawer, when hang on, some of my other classmates had appallingly good grades too.
 So, in a frenzy, I corrected everybody's marks, not imaginatively.
 I gave everybody a row of D's and I gave myself a row of A's, just because I was there, you know, might as well.
 And I am still baffled by my behavior.
 I don't understand where the idea came from.
 I don't understand why I felt so great doing it.
 I felt great.
 I don't understand why I was never caught.
 I mean, it should have been so blatantly obvious.
 I was never caught.
 But most of all, I am baffled by, why did it bother me so much that this little girl, this tiny little girl, was so good at spelling?
 Jealousy baffles me.
 It's so mysterious, and it's so pervasive.
 We know babies suffer from jealousy.
 We know primates do. Bluebirds are actually very prone.
 We know that jealousy is the number one cause of spousal murder in the United States.
 And yet, I have never read a study that can parse to me its loneliness or its longevity or its grim thrill.
 For that, we have to go to fiction, because the novel is the lab that has studied jealousy in every possible configuration.
 In fact, I don't know if it's an exaggeration to say that if we didn't have jealousy, would we even have literature?
 Well no faithless Helen, no "Odyssey."
 No jealous king, no "Arabian Nights."
 No Shakespeare.
 And we think about Proust, we think about the sentimental bits, right?
 We think about a little boy trying to get to sleep.
 We think about a madeleine moistened in lavender tea.
 We forget how harsh his vision was.
 We forget how pitiless he is.
 I mean, these are books that Virginia Woolf said were tough as cat gut.
 I don't know what cat gut is, but let's assume it's formidable.
 Let's look at why they go so well together, the novel and jealousy, jealousy and Proust.
 Is it something as obvious as that jealousy, which boils down into person, desire, impediment, is such a solid narrative foundation?
 I don't know. I think it cuts very close to the bone, because let's think about what happens when we feel jealous.
 When we feel jealous, we tell ourselves a story.
 As the teller of the tale and the audience, we know just what details to include, to dig that knife in. Right?
 Jealousy makes us all amateur novelists, and this is something Proust understood.
 Everything that she does that gives me pleasure could be giving somebody else pleasure, maybe right about now."
 Now Swann and Proust, we have to admit, were notoriously jealous.
 You know, Proust's boyfriends would have to leave the country if they wanted to break up with him.
 But you don't have to be that jealous to concede that it's hard work. Right?
 Jealousy is exhausting.
 It's a hungry emotion. It must be fed.
 And what does jealousy like?
 Jealousy likes information.
 Jealousy likes details.
 Jealousy likes the vast quantities of shiny hair, the cute little pencil case.
 Jealousy likes photos.
 That's why Instagram is such a hit.
 Proust actually links the language of scholarship and jealousy.
 When Swann is in his jealous throes, and suddenly he's listening at doorways and bribing his mistress' servants, he defends these behaviors.
 He says, "They are scientific investigations with real intellectual value."
 Grief, humiliation, loss: These were the avenues to wisdom for Proust.
 Is he telling us to just go and find cruel women?
 No. I think he's trying to say that jealousy reveals us to ourselves.
 And does any other emotion crack us open in this particular way?
 Does any other emotion reveal to us our aggression and our hideous ambition and our entitlement?
 Does any other emotion teach us to look with such peculiar intensity?
 Freud would write about this later.
 One day, Freud was visited by this very anxious young man who was consumed with the thought of his wife cheating on him.
 And Freud says, it's something strange about this guy, because he's not looking at what his wife is doing.
 Because she's blameless; everybody knows it.
 The poor creature is just under suspicion for no cause.
 But he's looking for things that his wife is doing without noticing, unintentional behaviors.
 Is she smiling too brightly here, or did she accidentally brush up against a man there?
 [Freud] says that the man is becoming the custodian of his wife's unconscious.
 The novel is very good on this point.
 The novel is very good at describing how jealousy trains us to look with intensity but not accuracy.
 In fact, the more intensely jealous we are, the more we become residents of fantasy.
 And this is why, I think, jealousy doesn't just provoke us to do violent things or illegal things.
 Jealousy prompts us to behave in ways that are wildly inventive.
 Now I'm thinking of myself at eight, I concede, but I'm also thinking of this story I heard on the news.
 For a year. A year.
 And she was trying to frame her ex-boyfriend's new girlfriend, and I have to confess when I heard this, I just reacted with admiration.
 Because, I mean, let's be real.
 What immense, if misplaced, creativity. Right?
 This is something from a novel.
 This is something from a Patricia Highsmith novel.
 Now Highsmith is a particular favorite of mine.
 She is the very brilliant and bizarre woman of American letters.
 Take Tom Ripley, her most famous character.
 That's one way to go.
 But what do we do? We can't go the Tom Ripley route.
 I can't give the world D's, as much as I would really like to, some days.
 And it's a pity, because we live in envious times.
 We live in jealous times.
 I mean, we're all good citizens of social media, aren't we, where the currency is envy?
 Does the novel show us a way out? I'm not sure.
 So let's do what characters always do when they're not sure, when they are in possession of a mystery.
 Let's go to 221B Baker Street and ask for Sherlock Holmes.
 When people think of Holmes, they think of his nemesis being Professor Moriarty, right, this criminal mastermind.
 Oh, it's so familiar to me.
 So Lestrade needs his help, resents him, and sort of seethes with bitterness over the course of the mysteries.
 We're proud of you."
 And he says that there's not a man at Scotland Yard who wouldn't want to shake Sherlock Holmes' hand.
 It seems to treat jealousy as a problem of geometry, not emotion.
 You know, one minute Holmes is on the other side from Lestrade.
 The next minute they're on the same side.
 Suddenly, Lestrade is letting himself admire this mind that he's resented.
 Could it be so simple though?
 What if jealousy really is a matter of geometry, just a matter of where we allow ourselves to stand in relation to another?
 Well, maybe then we wouldn't have to resent somebody's excellence.
 We could align ourselves with it.
 But I like contingency plans.
 So while we wait for that to happen, let us remember that we have fiction for consolation.
 Fiction alone demystifies jealousy.
 Fiction alone domesticates it, invites it to the table.
 And look who it gathers: sweet Lestrade, terrifying Tom Ripley, crazy Swann, Marcel Proust himself.
 We are in excellent company.
 Thank you.
 It was a beautiful day.
 The forest was sparkling.
 We got to our campsite.
 It was a lean-to on a bluff looking over a crystal, beautiful lake, when I discovered a horror.
 Behind the lean-to was a dump, maybe 40 feet square with rotting apple cores and balled-up aluminum foil, and a dead sneaker.
 And I was astonished, I was very angry, and I was deeply confused.
 The campers who were too lazy to take out what they had brought in, who did they think would clean up after them?
 That question stayed with me, and it simplified a little.
 Who cleans up after us?
 However you configure or wherever you place the us, who cleans up after us in Istanbul?
 Who cleans up after us in Rio or in Paris or in London?
 Here in New York, the Department of Sanitation cleans up after us, to the tune of 11,000 tons of garbage and 2,000 tons of recyclables every day.
 I wanted to get to know them as individuals.
 I wanted to understand who takes the job.
 What's it like to wear the uniform and bear that burden?
 So I started a research project with them.
 I needed to go deeper.
 So I took the job as a sanitation worker.
 I didn't just ride in the trucks now. I drove the trucks.
 And I operated the mechanical brooms and I plowed the snow.
 It was a remarkable privilege and an amazing education.
 Everyone asks about the smell.
 It's there, but it's not as prevalent as you think, and on days when it is really bad, you get used to it rather quickly.
 The weight takes a long time to get used to.
 Then there's the danger.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, sanitation work is one of the 10 most dangerous occupations in the country, and I learned why.
 You're in and out of traffic all day, and it's zooming around you.
 It just wants to get past you, so it's often the motorist is not paying attention.
 That's really bad for the worker.
 And then the garbage itself is full of hazards that often fly back out of the truck and do terrible harm.
 I also learned about the relentlessness of trash.
 When you step off the curb and you see a city from behind a truck, you come to understand that trash is like a force of nature unto itself.
 It never stops coming.
 It's also like a form of respiration or circulation.
 It must always be in motion.
 And then there's the stigma.
 They are the first guardians of public health.
 Diseases we've had in check for decades and centuries burst forth again and start to harm us.
 The economy needs them.
 I'm not advocating capitalism, I'm just pointing out their relationship.
 And then there's what I call our average, necessary quotidian velocity.
 By that I simply mean how fast we're used to moving in the contemporary day and age.
 We usually don't care for, repair, clean, carry around our coffee cup, our shopping bag, our bottle of water.
 We use them, we throw them out, we forget about them, because we know there's a workforce on the other side that's going to take it all away.
 Their work, I think, is kind of liturgical.
 They're on the streets every day, rhythmically.
 They wear a uniform in many cities.
 You know when to expect them.
 And their work lets us do our work.
 They are almost a form of reassurance.
 And I tried to thank him for doing his work on that day of all days, but I started to cry.
 And he looked at me, and he just nodded, and he said, "We're going to be okay.
 We're going to be okay."
 It was a little while later that I started my research with sanitation, and I met that man again.
 His name is Paulie, and we worked together many times, and we became good friends.
 I want to believe that Paulie was right.
 We are going to be okay.
 Municipal waste, what we think of when we talk about garbage, accounts for three percent of the nation's waste stream.
 It's a remarkable statistic.
 Take a moment to say thank you.
 Hello, TEDWomen, what's up.
 Not good enough.
 Hello, TEDWomen, what is up?
 My name is Maysoon Zayid, and I am not drunk, but the doctor who delivered me was.
 He cut my mom six different times in six different directions, suffocating poor little me in the process.
 As a result, I have cerebral palsy, which means I shake all the time.
 Look.
 It's exhausting. I'm like Shakira, Shakira meets Muhammad Ali.
 C.P. is not genetic.
 It's not a birth defect. You can't catch it.
 No one put a curse on my mother's uterus, and I didn't get it because my parents are first cousins, which they are.
 It only happens from accidents, like what happened to me on my birth day.
 Come on a journey with me.
 It's Christmas Eve, you're at the mall, you're driving around in circles looking for parking, and what do you see?
 Sixteen empty handicapped spaces.
 And you're like, "God, can't I just be a little disabled?"
 Also, I gotta tell you, I got 99 problems, and palsy is just one.
 If there was an Oppression Olympics, I would win the gold medal.
 I'm Palestinian, Muslim, I'm female, I'm disabled, and I live in New Jersey.
 If you don't feel better about yourself, maybe you should.
 Cliffside Park, New Jersey is my hometown.
 I have always loved the fact that my hood and my affliction share the same initials.
 I also love the fact that if I wanted to walk from my house to New York City, I could.
 A lot of people with C.P. don't walk, but my parents didn't believe in "can't."
 My father's mantra was, "You can do it, yes you can can."
 So, if my three older sisters were mopping, I was mopping.
 My father taught me how to walk when I was five years old by placing my heels on his feet and just walking.
 Another tactic that he used is he would dangle a dollar bill in front of me and have me chase it.
 Growing up, there were only six Arabs in my town, and they were all my family.
 Now there are 20 Arabs in town, and they are still all my family.
 I don't think anyone even noticed we weren't Italian.
 This was before 9/11 and before politicians thought it was appropriate to use "I hate Moslems" as a campaign slogan.
 The people that I grew up with had no problem with my faith.
 They did, however, seem very concerned that I would starve to death during Ramadan.
 I would explain to them that I have enough fat to live off of for three whole months, so fasting from sunrise to sunset is a piece of cake.
 I have tap-danced on Broadway.
 Yeah, on Broadway. It's crazy.
 My parents couldn't afford physical therapy, so they sent me to dancing school.
 I learned how to dance in heels, which means I can walk in heels.
 And I'm from Jersey, and we are really concerned with being chic, so if my friends wore heels, so did I.
 And when my friends went and spent their summer vacations on the Jersey Shore, I did not.
 But one miracle cure we did find was yoga.
 I have to tell you, it's very boring, but before I did yoga, I was a stand-up comedian who can't stand up.
 And now I can stand on my head.
 I went to college during affirmative action and got a sweet scholarship to ASU, Arizona State University, because I fit every single quota.
 I was like the pet lemur of the theater department.
 Everybody loved me.
 I did all the less-than-intelligent kids' homework, I got A's in all of my classes, A's in all of their classes.
 Every time I did a scene from "The Glass Menagerie," my professors would weep.
 But I never got cast.
 Finally, my senior year, ASU decided to do a show called "They Dance Real Slow in Jackson."
 It's a play about a girl with C.P.
 I was a girl with C.P.
 So I start shouting from the rooftops, "I'm finally going to get a part!
 I have cerebral palsy!
 Free at last! Free at last!
 Thank God almighty, I'm free at last!"
 I didn't get the part.
 Sherry Brown got the part.
 I said, "Excuse me, if I can't do the stunts, neither can the character."
 This was a part that I was literally born to play and they gave it, they gave it to a non-palsy actress.
 College was imitating life.
 Hollywood has a sordid history of casting able-bodied actors to play disabled onscreen.
 Upon graduating, I moved back home, and my first acting gig was as an extra on a daytime soap opera.
 My dream was coming true.
 And I knew that I would be promoted from "diner diner" to "wacky best friend" in no time.
 They only hired perfect people.
 But there were exceptions to the rule.
 I grew up watching Whoopi Goldberg, Roseanne Barr, Ellen, and all of these women had one thing in common: they were comedians.
 So I became a comic.
 I've performed in clubs all over America, and I've also performed in Arabic in the Middle East, uncensored and uncovered.
 Some people say I'm the first stand-up comic in the Arab world.
 Mainstreaming Arabs was much, much easier than conquering the challenge against the stigma against disability.
 My big break came in 2010.
 I was invited to be a guest on the cable news show "Countdown With Keith Olbermann."
 I walked in looking like I was going to the prom, and they shuffle me into a studio and seat me on a spinning, rolling chair.
 So I looked at the stage manager and I'm like, "Excuse me, can I have another chair?"
 And she looked at me and she went, "Five, four, three, two ..."
 And we were live, right?
 I had finally gotten my chance and I blew it, and I knew I would never get invited back.
 But not only did Mr. Olbermann invite me back, he made me a full-time contributor, and he taped down my chair.
 One fun fact I learned while on the air with Keith Olbermann was that humans on the Internet are scumbags.
 People say children are cruel, but I was never made fun of as a child or an adult.
 Suddenly, my disability on the world wide web is fair game.
 I would look at clips online and see comments like, "Yo, why's she tweakin?"
 "Yo, is she retarded?"
 And my favorite, "Poor Gumby-mouth terrorist.
 What does she suffer from?
 We should really pray for her."
 One commenter even suggested that I add my disability to my credits: screenwriter, comedian, palsy.
 Disability is as visual as race.
 If a wheelchair user can't play Beyoncé, then Beyoncé can't play a wheelchair user.
 The disabled are the largest — Yeah, clap for that, man. C'mon.
 People with disabilities are the largest minority in the world, and we are the most underrepresented in entertainment.
 The doctors said that I wouldn't walk, but I am here in front of you.
 However, if I grew up with social media, I don't think I would be.
 I hope that together we can create more positive images of disability in the media and in everyday life.
 Perhaps if there were more positive images, it would foster less hate on the Internet.
 Or maybe not.
 Maybe it still takes a village to teach our children well.
 My crooked journey has taken me to some very spectacular places.
 I got to walk the red carpet flanked by soap diva Susan Lucci and the iconic Lorraine Arbus.
 I got to act in a movie with Adam Sandler and work with my idol, the amazing Dave Matthews.
 I toured the world as a headliner on Arabs Gone Wild.
 I was a delegate representing the great state of New Jersey at the 2008 DNC.
 It was the only time that my father ever saw me perform live, and I dedicate this talk to his memory.
 My name is Maysoon Zayid, and if I can can, you can can.
 So, we used to solve big problems.
 On July 21st, 1969, Buzz Aldrin climbed out of Apollo 11's lunar module and descended onto the Sea of Tranquility.
 The Apollo program was the greatest peacetime mobilization in the history of the United States.
 To get to the moon, NASA spent around 180 billion dollars in today's money, or four percent of the federal budget.
 Apollo employed around 400,000 people and demanded the collaboration of 20,000 companies, universities and government agencies.
 People died, including the crew of Apollo 1.
 But before the Apollo program ended, 24 men flew to the moon.
 Twelve walked on its surface, of whom Aldrin, following the death of Armstrong last year, is now the most senior.
 So why did they go?
 Why did they go? The cynical answer is they went because President Kennedy wanted to show the Soviets that his nation had the better rockets.
 But Kennedy's own words at Rice University in 1962 provide a better clue.
 To contemporaries, Apollo wasn't only a victory of West over East in the Cold War.
 At the time, the strongest emotion was of wonder at the transcendent powers of technology.
 They went because it was a big thing to do.
 Landing on the moon occurred in the context of a long series of technological triumphs.
 The first half of the 20th century produced the assembly line and the airplane, penicillin and a vaccine for tuberculosis.
 In the middle years of the century, polio was eradicated and smallpox eliminated.
 Technology itself seemed to possess what Alvin Toffler in 1970 called "accelerative thrust."
 Since 1970, no human beings have been back to the moon.
 I remember watching the liftoff of Apollo 17.
 I was five years old, and my mother told me not to stare at the fiery exhaust of a Saturn V rocket.
 So "Something happened to our capacity to solve big problems with technology" has become a commonplace.
 You hear it all the time.
 We've heard it over the last two days here at TED.
 There's nothing wrong with most of these things.
 They've expanded and enriched our lives.
 But they don't solve humanity's big problems.
 What happened?
 Silicon Valley says the markets are to blame, in particular the incentives that venture capitalists offer to entrepreneurs.
 But I don't think that explanation is good enough.
 It mostly explains what's wrong with Silicon Valley.
 No, the reasons we can't solve big problems are more complicated and more profound.
 Sometimes we choose not to solve big problems.
 We could go to Mars if we want.
 NASA even has the outline of a plan.
 But going to Mars would follow a political decision with popular appeal, and that will never happen.
 We won't go to Mars, because everyone thinks there are more important things to do here on Earth.
 Sometimes, we can't solve big problems because our political systems fail.
 Coal and natural gas are cheaper than solar and wind, and petroleum is cheaper than biofuels.
 We want alternative energy sources that can compete on price. None exist.
 Sometimes, big problems that had seemed technological turn out not to be so.
 Famines were long understood to be caused by failures in food supply.
 Finally, big problems sometimes elude solution because we don't really understand the problem.
 Hard problems are hard.
 It's not true that we can't solve big problems through technology.
 The Apollo mission, which has become a kind of metaphor for technology's capacity to solve big problems, met these criteria.
 But it is an irreproducible model for the future.
 It is not 1961.
 Most of all, going to the moon turned out to be easy.
 It was just three days away.
 And arguably it wasn't even solving much of a problem.
 We are left alone with our day, and the solutions of the future will be harder won.
 God knows, we don't lack for the challenges.
 Thank you very much.
 I'd like to invite you to close your eyes.
 Imagine yourself standing outside the front door of your home.
 I'd like you to notice the color of the door, the material that it's made out of.
 Now visualize a pack of overweight nudists on bicycles.
 They are competing in a naked bicycle race, and they are headed straight for your front door.
 I need you to actually see this.
 They are pedaling really hard, they're sweaty, they're bouncing around a lot.
 And they crash straight into the front door of your home.
 Bicycles fly everywhere, wheels roll past you, spokes end up in awkward places.
 The light is shining down on Cookie Monster.
 Cookie Monster is waving at you from his perch on top of a tan horse.
 It's a talking horse.
 You can practically feel his blue fur tickling your nose.
 You can smell the oatmeal raisin cookie that he's about to shovel into his mouth.
 Walk past him. Walk past him into your living room.
 In your living room, in full imaginative broadband, picture Britney Spears.
 She is scantily clad, she's dancing on your coffee table, and she's singing "Hit Me Baby One More Time."
 And then follow me into your kitchen.
 Okay. Open your eyes.
 I want to tell you about a very bizarre contest that is held every spring in New York City.
 It's called the United States Memory Championship.
 This was a bunch of guys and a few ladies, widely varying in both age and hygienic upkeep.
 They were memorizing hundreds of random numbers, looking at them just once.
 They were memorizing the names of dozens and dozens and dozens of strangers.
 They were memorizing entire poems in just a few minutes.
 They were competing to see who could memorize the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards the fastest.
 I was like, this is unbelievable.
 These people must be freaks of nature.
 And I started talking to a few of the competitors.
 This is a guy called Ed Cook who had come over from England where he had one of the best trained memories.
 And I said to him, "Ed, when did you realize that you were a savant?"
 And Ed was like, "I'm not a savant.
 In fact, I have just an average memory.
 Everybody who competes in this contest will tell you that they have just an average memory.
 And I was like, "Whoa. How come I never heard of this before?"
 Do you know Britney Spears?"
 I'm like, "What? No. Why?"
 "Because I really want to teach Britney Spears how to memorize the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards on U.S. national television.
 It will prove to the world that anybody can do this."
 I was like, "Well I'm not Britney Spears, but maybe you could teach me.
 I mean, you've got to start somewhere, right?"
 And that was the beginning of a very strange journey for me.
 I met a host of really interesting people.
 This is a guy called E.P.
 He's an amnesic who had, very possibly, the very worst memory in the world.
 His memory was so bad that he didn't even remember he had a memory problem, which is amazing.
 And he was this incredibly tragic figure, but he was a window into the extent to which our memories make us who we are.
 The other end of the spectrum: I met this guy.
 This is Kim Peek.
 He was the basis for Dustin Hoffman's character in the movie "Rain Man."
 And I learned a whole bunch of really interesting stuff.
 Once upon a time, people invested in their memories, in laboriously furnishing their minds.
 These technologies have made our modern world possible, but they've also changed us.
 They've changed us culturally, and I would argue that they've changed us cognitively.
 Having little need to remember anymore, it sometimes seems like we've forgotten how.
 It's actually not that singular, there are contests held all over the world.
 And I was fascinated, I wanted to know how do these guys do it.
 A few years back a group of researchers at University College London brought a bunch of memory champions into the lab.
 They wanted to know: Do these guys have brains that are somehow structurally, anatomically different from the rest of ours?
 The answer was no.
 Are they smarter than the rest of us?
 They gave them a bunch of cognitive tests, and the answer was not really.
 Of note, they were using, or they seemed to be using, a part of the brain that's involved in spatial memory and navigation.
 Why? And is there something the rest of us can learn from this?
 This is my friend Ben Pridmore, three-time world memory champion.
 He used a similar technique to memorize the precise order of 4,140 random binary digits in half an hour.
 Yeah.
 That's his name.
 And I say to you, "Remember that there is a guy who is a baker."
 And I come back to you at some point later on, and I say, "Do you remember that word that I told you a while back?
 Do you remember what it was?"
 Same word, different amount of remembering; that's weird.
 What's going on here?
 Well the name Baker doesn't actually mean anything to you.
 It is entirely untethered from all of the other memories floating around in your skull.
 But the common noun baker, we know bakers.
 Bakers wear funny white hats.
 Bakers have flour on their hands.
 Bakers smell good when they come home from work.
 Maybe we even know a baker.
 One of the more elaborate techniques for doing this dates back 2,500 years to Ancient Greece.
 It came to be known as the memory palace.
 The story behind its creation goes like this: There was a poet called Simonides who was attending a banquet.
 And he stands up, delivers his poem from memory, walks out the door, and at the moment he does, the banquet hall collapses, kills everybody inside.
 It doesn't just kill everybody, it mangles the bodies beyond all recognition.
 Nobody can say who was inside, nobody can say where they were sitting.
 The bodies can't be properly buried.
 It's one tragedy compounding another.
 And he takes the relatives by the hand and guides them each to their loved ones amid the wreckage.
 If I asked you to recount the first 10 words of the story that I just told you about Simonides, chances are you would have a tough time with it.
 This is advice that goes back 2,000-plus years to the earliest Latin memory treatises.
 So how does this work?
 What you might do is picture yourself at the front door of your house.
 And then you'd go inside your house, and you would see an image of Cookie Monster on top of Mister Ed.
 And that would remind you that you would want to then introduce your friend Ed Cook.
 And then you'd see an image of Britney Spears to remind you of this funny anecdote you want to tell.
 This is how Roman orators memorized their speeches -- not word-for-word, which is just going to screw you up, but topic-for-topic.
 In fact, the phrase "topic sentence," that comes from the Greek word "topos," which means "place."
 That's a vestige of when people used to think about oratory and rhetoric in these sorts of spatial terms.
 The phrase "in the first place," that's like in the first place of your memory palace.
 I thought this was just fascinating, and I got really into it.
 And I went to a few more of these memory contests.
 And I had this notion that I might write something longer about this subculture of competitive memorizers.
 But there was a problem.
 The problem was that a memory contest is a pathologically boring event.
 Truly, it is like a bunch of people sitting around taking the SATs.
 I mean, the most dramatic it gets is when somebody starts massaging their temples.
 And I'm a journalist, I need something to write about.
 I know that there's this incredible stuff happening in these people's minds, but I don't have access to it.
 And I realized, if I was going to tell this story, I needed to walk in their shoes a little bit.
 And so I started trying to spend 15 or 20 minutes every morning before I sat down with my New York Times just trying to remember something.
 Maybe it was a poem.
 Maybe it was names from an old yearbook that I bought at a flea market.
 And I found that this was shockingly fun.
 I never would have expected that.
 It was fun because this is actually not about training your memory.
 And I got pretty into it.
 This is me wearing my standard competitive memorizer's training kit.
 I ended up coming back to that same contest that I had covered a year earlier.
 And I had this notion that I might enter it, sort of as an experiment in participatory journalism.
 It'd make, I thought, maybe a nice epilogue to all my research.
 Problem was the experiment went haywire.
 I won the contest, which really wasn't supposed to happen.
 Now it is nice to be able to memorize speeches and phone numbers and shopping lists, but it's actually kind of beside the point.
 These are just tricks.
 They are tricks that work because they're based on some pretty basic principles about how our brains work.
 We often talk about people with great memories as though it were some sort of an innate gift, but that is not the case.
 Great memories are learned.
 At the most basic level, we remember when we pay attention.
 We remember when we are deeply engaged.
 The memory palace, these memory techniques, they're just shortcuts.
 In fact, they're not even really shortcuts.
 They work because they make you work.
 They force a kind of depth of processing, a kind of mindfulness, that most of us don't normally walk around exercising.
 But there actually are no shortcuts.
 This is how stuff is made memorable.
 I learned firsthand that there are incredible memory capacities latent in all of us.
 But if you want to live a memorable life, you have to be the kind of person who remembers to remember.
 Thank you.
 When I was 27 years old, I left a very demanding job in management consulting for a job that was even more demanding: teaching.
 I went to teach seventh graders math in the New York City public schools.
 And like any teacher, I made quizzes and tests.
 I gave out homework assignments.
 When the work came back, I calculated grades.
 What struck me was that I.Q. was not the only difference between my best and my worst students.
 Some of my strongest performers did not have stratospheric I.Q. scores.
 Some of my smartest kids weren't doing so well.
 And that got me thinking.
 The kinds of things you need to learn in seventh grade math, sure, they're hard: ratios, decimals, the area of a parallelogram.
 So I left the classroom, and I went to graduate school to become a psychologist.
 My research team and I went to West Point Military Academy.
 We tried to predict which cadets would stay in military training and which would drop out.
 We went to the National Spelling Bee and tried to predict which children would advance farthest in competition.
 We partnered with private companies, asking, which of these salespeople is going to keep their jobs?
 And who's going to earn the most money?
 In all those very different contexts, one characteristic emerged as a significant predictor of success.
 And it wasn't social intelligence.
 It wasn't good looks, physical health, and it wasn't I.Q.
 It was grit.
 Grit is passion and perseverance for very long-term goals.
 Grit is having stamina.
 Grit is living life like it's a marathon, not a sprint.
 A few years ago, I started studying grit in the Chicago public schools.
 To me, the most shocking thing about grit is how little we know, how little science knows, about building it.
 Every day, parents and teachers ask me, "How do I build grit in kids?
 What do I do to teach kids a solid work ethic?
 How do I keep them motivated for the long run?"
 The honest answer is, I don't know.
 What I do know is that talent doesn't make you gritty.
 Our data show very clearly that there are many talented individuals who simply do not follow through on their commitments.
 In fact, in our data, grit is usually unrelated or even inversely related to measures of talent.
 So far, the best idea I've heard about building grit in kids is something called "growth mindset."
 So growth mindset is a great idea for building grit.
 But we need more.
 And that's where I'm going to end my remarks, because that's where we are.
 That's the work that stands before us.
 We need to take our best ideas, our strongest intuitions, and we need to test them.
 In other words, we need to be gritty about getting our kids grittier.
 Thank you.
 Today I brought two recent projects as an example of this.
 Both projects are in emerging countries, one in Ethiopia and another one in Tunisia.
 And also they have in common that the different analyses from different perspectives becomes an essential part of the final piece of architecture.
 The first example started with an invitation to design a multistory shopping mall in Ethiopia's capital city Addis Ababa.
 And this is the type of building we were shown as an example, to my team and myself, of what we had to design.
 At first, the first thing I thought was, I want to run away.
 After seeing a few of these buildings -- there are many in the city -- we realized that they have three very big points.
 First, these buildings, they are almost empty because they have very large shops where people cannot afford to buy things.
 In a city where this shouldn't happen because they have really mild weather that ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year.
 And third is that their image has nothing to do with Africa and with Ethiopia.
 It is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions.
 And also it has this idea of the public space that uses the outdoors to create activity.
 So I thought, this is what I really want to design, not a shopping mall.
 But the question was how we could do a multistory, contemporary building with these principles.
 And it's also between two parallel streets that don't have any connection for hundreds of meters.
 So the first thing we did was to create a connection between these two streets, putting all the entrances of the building.
 And around this void we placed this idea of the market with small shops, that change in each floor because of the shape of the void.
 I also thought, how to close the building?
 And I really wanted to find a solution that would respond to the local climate conditions.
 And then the inspiration came from these beautiful buttons of the Ethiopian women's dresses.
 That they have fractal geometry properties and this helped me to shape the whole facade.
 And this is complemented by these small colored glasses that use the light from the inside of the building to light up the building at night.
 So we created some budget savings that we used to implement the project.
 So we created a huge asset by placing photovoltaics there on the roof.
 And then under those panels we thought about the roof like a new public space with gathering areas and bars that would create this urban oasis.
 And these porches on the roof, all together they collect the water to reuse for sanitation on the inside.
 Hopefully by the beginning of next year, because we are already on the fifth floor of the construction.
 The second example is a master plan of 2,000 apartments and facilities in the city of Tunis.
 And the last operation was to think about the cell, the small cell of the project, like the apartment, as an essential part of the master plan.
 And for that I thought, what would be the best orientation in the Mediterranean climate for an apartment?
 And it's north-south, because it creates a thermal difference between both sides of the house and then a natural ventilation.
 So we overlap a pattern that makes sure that most of the apartments are perfectly oriented in that direction.
 And this is the result that is almost like a combination of the European block and the Arab city.
 It has these blocks with courtyards, and then on the ground floor you have all these connections for the pedestrians.
 And also it responds to the local regulations that establish a higher density on the upper levels and a lower density on the ground floor.
 And it also reinforces this idea of the gates.
 The roof, which is my favorite space of the project is almost like giving back to the community the space taken by the construction.
 These two examples, they have a common approach in the design process.
 And also, they are in emerging countries where you can see the cities literally growing.
 Thank you very much.
 So I'm going to talk about trust, and I'm going to start by reminding you of the standard views that people have about trust.
 I think these are so commonplace, they've become clichés of our society.
 And I think there are three.
 One's a claim: there has been a great decline in trust, very widely believed.
 The second is an aim: we should have more trust.
 And the third is a task: we should rebuild trust.
 I think that the claim, the aim and the task are all misconceived.
 First the claim: Why do people think trust has declined?
 And if I really think about it on the basis of my own evidence, I don't know the answer.
 I'm inclined to think it may have declined in some activities or some institutions and it might have grown in others.
 I don't have an overview.
 But, of course, I can look at the opinion polls, and the opinion polls are supposedly the source of a belief that trust has declined.
 When you actually look at opinion polls across time, there's not much evidence for that.
 That's to say, the people who were mistrusted 20 years ago, principally journalists and politicians, are still mistrusted.
 And the people who were highly trusted 20 years ago are still rather highly trusted: judges, nurses.
 The rest of us are in between, and by the way, the average person in the street is almost exactly midway.
 But is that good evidence?
 What opinion polls record is, of course, opinions.
 What else can they record?
 So they're looking at the generic attitudes that people report when you ask them certain questions.
 Do you trust politicians? Do you trust teachers?
 Now if somebody said to you, "Do you trust greengrocers?
 Do you trust fishmongers?
 Do you trust elementary school teachers?"
 you would probably begin by saying, "To do what?"
 And that would be a perfectly sensible response.
 And you might say, when you understood the answer to that, "Well, I trust some of them, but not others."
 That's a perfectly rational thing.
 In short, in our real lives, we seek to place trust in a differentiated way.
 I might, after all, know that she wasn't a good driver.
 I might trust my most loquacious friend to keep a conversation going but not -- but perhaps not to keep a secret.
 Simple.
 Secondly, what about the aim?
 The aim is to have more trust.
 Well frankly, I think that's a stupid aim.
 It's not what I would aim at.
 I would aim to have more trust in the trustworthy but not in the untrustworthy.
 In fact, I aim positively to try not to trust the untrustworthy.
 More trust is not an intelligent aim in this life.
 Intelligently placed and intelligently refused trust is the proper aim.
 Well once one says that, one says, yeah, okay, that means that what matters in the first place is not trust but trustworthiness.
 It's judging how trustworthy people are in particular respects.
 And I think that judgment requires us to look at three things.
 Are they competent? Are they honest? Are they reliable?
 But if, on the other hand, they're unreliable, we might not.
 I have friends who are competent and honest, but I would not trust them to post a letter, because they're forgetful.
 I have friends who are very confident they can do certain things, but I realize that they overestimate their own competence.
 And I'm very glad to say, I don't think I have many friends who are competent and reliable but extremely dishonest.
 If so, I haven't yet spotted it.
 But that's what we're looking for: trustworthiness before trust.
 Trust is the response.
 Trustworthiness is what we have to judge. And, of course, it's difficult.
 A lot of these systems have the converse effect.
 They don't work as they're supposed to.
 I remember I was talking with a midwife who said, "Well, you see, the problem is it takes longer to do the paperwork than to deliver the baby."
 It is distracting people who have to do difficult tasks, like midwives, from doing them by requiring them to tick the boxes, as we say.
 You can all give your own examples there.
 So so much for the aim.
 It's not easy. It is judgment, and simple reaction, attitudes, don't do adequately here.
 Now thirdly, the task.
 Calling the task rebuilding trust, I think, also gets things backwards.
 It suggests that you and I should rebuild trust.
 Well, we can do that for ourselves.
 We can rebuild a bit of trustworthiness.
 We can do it two people together trying to improve trust.
 But trust, in the end, is distinctive because it's given by other people.
 You can't rebuild what other people give you.
 You have to give them the basis for giving you their trust.
 So you have to, I think, be trustworthy.
 And that, of course, is because you can't fool all of the people all of the time, usually.
 But you also have to provide usable evidence that you are trustworthy.
 How to do it?
 Well every day, all over the place, it's being done by ordinary people, by officials, by institutions, quite effectively.
 Let me give you a simple commercial example.
 The shop where I buy my socks says I may take them back, and they don't ask any questions.
 They take them back and give me the money or give me the pair of socks of the color I wanted.
 That's super. I trust them because they have made themselves vulnerable to me.
 I think there's a big lesson in that.
 So in the end, I think what we are aiming for is not very difficult to discern.
 It is relationships in which people are trustworthy and can judge when and how the other person is trustworthy.
 Thanks.
 You know, my favorite part of being a dad is the movies I get to watch.
 It totally dominated her imagination for months.
 Her favorite character was Glinda, of course.
 It gave her a great excuse to wear a sparkly dress and carry a wand.
 But you watch that movie enough times, and you start to realize how unusual it is.
 Now we live today, and are raising our children, in a kind of children's-fantasy-spectacular-industrial complex.
 But "The Wizard of Oz" stood alone.
 It did not start that trend.
 Do you know what I'm talking about?
 Yeah.
 One is there's very little violence in "The Wizard of Oz."
 The monkeys are rather aggressive, as are the apple trees.
 Use your magic slippers to defeat the computer-generated armies of the Wicked Witch."
 But that's not how it happens.
 Now I started to notice this when I actually showed "Star Wars" to my daughter, which was years later, and the situation was different.
 At that point I also had a son.
 He was only three at the time.
 He was not invited to the screening. He was too young for that.
 But he was the second child, and the level of supervision had plummeted.
 And I wonder what he's soaking in.
 Is he picking up on the themes of courage and perseverance and loyalty?
 Is he picking up on the fact that Luke joins an army to overthrow the government?
 Compare this to 1939 with "The Wizard of Oz."
 How does Dorothy win her movie?
 By making friends with everybody and being a leader.
 Why is there so much Force -- capital F, Force -- in the movies we have for our kids, and so little yellow brick road?
 I haven't read as much on how boys are picking up on this vibe.
 I think there was a first-kiss moment when I really expected the credits to start rolling because that's the end of the movie, right?
 I finished my quest, I got the girl.
 Why are you still standing there?
 I don't know what I'm supposed to do.
 It's almost as though if you're a boy, you are a dopey animal, and if you are a girl, you should bring your warrior costume.
 There are plenty of exceptions, and I will defend the Disney princesses in front of any you.
 But they do send a message to boys, that they are not, the boys are not really the target audience.
 There's no models for them.
 Until, as many of you are thinking, this year, when they finally came out with "Brave."
 I recommend it to all of you. It's on demand now.
 Do you remember what the critics said when "Brave" came out?
 "Aw, I can't believe Pixar made a princess movie."
 It's very good. Don't let that stop you.
 Now, almost none of these movies pass the Bechdel Test.
 I don't know if you've heard of this.
 It has not yet caught on and caught fire, but maybe today we will start a movement.
 And it's very simple. There's just three questions you should ask: Is there more than one character in the movie that is female who has lines?
 So try to meet that bar.
 And do these women talk to each other at any point in the movie?
 And is their conversation about something other than the guy that they both like?
 Right? Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 Two women who exist and talk to each other about stuff.
 It does happen. I've seen it, and yet I very rarely see it in the movies that we know and love.
 In fact, this week I went to see a very high-quality movie, "Argo."
 It pretty much flunks the Bechdel test.
 That's Hollywood for you.
 So let's look at the numbers.
 2011, of the 100 most popular movies, how many of them do you think actually have female protagonists?
 Eleven. It's not bad.
 It's not as many percent as the number of women we've just elected to Congress, so that's good.
 But there is a number that is greater than this that's going to bring this room down.
 Last year, The New York Times published a study that the government had done.
 Here's what it said.
 One out of five women in America say that they have been sexually assaulted some time in their life.
 Now, I don't think that's the fault of popular entertainment.
 I don't think kids' movies have anything to do with that.
 Who are these guys? What are they learning?
 What are they failing to learn?
 Are we soaking up that story?
 I mean, I think the Netflix queue is one way that we can do something very important, and I'm talking mainly to the dads here.
 I think we have got to show our sons a new definition of manhood.
 The definition of manhood is already turning upside down.
 You've read about how the new economy is changing the roles of caregiver and wage earner.
 They're throwing it up in the air.
 When I asked my daughter who her favorite character was in "Star Wars," do you know what she said?
 Obi-Wan.
 Obi-Wan Kenobi and Glinda.
 What do these two have in common?
 Maybe it's not just the sparkly dress.
 I think these people are experts.
 Now, they are leaders.
 I like that kind of quest for my daughter, and I like that kind of quest for my son.
 I want more quests like that.
 Thank you.
 I would like to talk to you about a story about a small town kid.
 I don't know his name, but I do know his story.
 He lives in a small village in southern Somalia.
 His village is near Mogadishu.
 Drought drives the small village into poverty and to the brink of starvation.
 With nothing left for him there, he leaves for the big city, in this case, Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia.
 When he arrives, there are no opportunities, no jobs, no way forward.
 He ends up living in a tent city on the outskirts of Mogadishu.
 Maybe a year passes, nothing.
 One day, he's approached by a gentleman who offers to take him to lunch, then to dinner, to breakfast.
 He meets this dynamic group of people, and they give him a break.
 He's given a bit of money to buy himself some new clothes, money to send back home to his family.
 He is introduced to this young woman.
 He eventually gets married.
 He starts this new life.
 He has a purpose in life.
 One beautiful day in Mogadishu, under an azure blue sky, a car bomb goes off.
 He was waiting.
 He was waiting for an opportunity, waiting to begin his future, waiting for a way forward, and this was the first thing that came along.
 This was the first thing that pulled him out of what we call waithood.
 And his story repeats itself in urban centers around the world.
 Often it's youth who suffer from the highest unemployment rates.
 By 2030, three out of five people living in cities will be under the age of 18.
 And in my city of birth, Mogadishu, 70 percent of young people suffer from unemployment.
 70 percent don't work, don't go to school.
 They pretty much do nothing.
 I went back to Mogadishu last month, and I went to visit Madina Hospital, the hospital I was born in.
 I remember standing in front of that bullet-ridden hospital thinking, what if I had never left?
 What if I had been forced into that same state of waithood?
 Would I have become a terrorist?
 I'm not really sure about the answer.
 I brought together about 90 young Somali leaders.
 We sat down and brainstormed on solutions to the biggest challenges facing their city.
 One of the young men in the room was Aden.
 He went to university in Mogadishu, graduated.
 There were no jobs, no opportunities.
 They sought people like him out.
 But his story takes a different route.
 In Mogadishu, the biggest barrier to getting from point A to point B are the roads.
 Twenty-three years of civil war have completely destroyed the road system, and a motorbike can be the easiest way to get around.
 Aden saw an opportunity and seized it.
 He started a motorbike company.
 He began renting out motorbikes to local residents who couldn't normally afford them.
 How is this story different?
 What makes his story different?
 I believe it is his ability to identify and seize a new opportunity.
 It's entrepreneurship, and I believe entrepreneurship can be the most powerful tool against waithood.
 It empowers young people to be the creators of the very economic opportunities they are so desperately seeking.
 And you can train young people to be entrepreneurs.
 I want to talk to you about a young man who attended one of my meetings, Mohamed Mohamoud, a florist.
 So Mohamed saw an opportunity.
 He started a landscaping and design floral company.
 There's no public park in Mogadishu.
 He wants to create a space where families, young people, can come together, and, as he says, smell the proverbial roses.
 And he doesn't grow roses because they use too much water, by the way.
 They had never really thought about starting up a business.
 They've thought about working for an NGO, working for the government, but his story, his innovation, really had a strong impact on them.
 He forced them to look at their city as a place of opportunity.
 He empowered them to believe that they could be entrepreneurs, that they could be change makers.
 By the end of the day, they were coming up with innovative solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing their city.
 They came up with entrepreneurial solutions to local problems.
 They need expertise and mentorship to guide them in developing and launching their businesses.
 For me, entrepreneurship is more than just starting up a business.
 It's about creating a social impact.
 Mohamed is not simply selling flowers.
 I believe he is selling hope.
 His Peace Park, and that's what he calls it, when it's created, will actually transform the way people see their city.
 Aden hired street kids to help rent out and maintain those bikes for him.
 He gave them the opportunity to escape the paralysis of waithood.
 These young entrepreneurs are having a tremendous impact in their cities.
 Thank you.
 But you know, these shells, they're hard to find.
 They're covered in sand. They're difficult to see.
 However, overtime, I got used to looking for them.
 I started seeing shapes and patterns that helped me to collect them.
 This grew into a passion for finding things, a love for the past and archaeology.
 And eventually when I started studying Egyptology, I realized that seeing with my naked eyes alone wasn't enough.
 This is really what brought me to using satellite imagery.
 For trying to map the past, I knew that I had to see differently.
 So I want to show you an example of how we see differently using the infrared.
 This is a site located in the eastern Egyptian delta called Bendix.
 What you are seeing are the actual chemical changes to the landscape caused by the building materials and activities of the ancient Egyptians.
 Itjtawy was ancient Egypt's capital for over four hundred years, at a period of time called the Middle Kingdom about four thousand years ago.
 This area is huge -- it's four miles by three miles in size.
 The Nile used to flow right next to the city of Itjtawy, and as it shifted and changed and moved over time to the east, it covered over the city.
 So, how do you find a buried city in a vast landscape?
 Finding it randomly would be the equivalent of locating a needle in a haystack, blindfolded wearing baseball mitts.
 So what we did is we used NASA topography data to map out the landscape, very subtle changes.
 We started to be able to see where the Nile used to flow.
 So we collaborated with the Egyptian scientists to do coring work, which you see here.
 When I say coring, it's like ice coring, but instead of layers of climate change you're looking for layers of human occupation.
 And five meters down, underneath a thick layer of mud, we found a dense layer of pottery.
 We also found work stone -- carnelian, quartz and agate that shows that there was a jewelers workshop here.
 So, we have a dense layer of occupation dating to the Middle Kingdom at this site.
 We also have evidence of an elite jewelers workshop, showing that whatever was there was a very important city.
 No Itjtawy was here yet, but we're going to be returning to the site in the near future to map it out.
 "Sharing knowledge is the greatest of all callings.
 There's nothing like it in the land."
 So as it turns out, TED was not founded in 1984 AD.
 Making ideas actually started in 1984 BC at a not-lost-for-long city, found from above.
 It certainly puts finding seashells by the seashore in perspective.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 Ever since then, I was fascinated by this incredible language.
 But to an outsider, it seems to be as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China.
 I started thinking about how a new, fast method of learning Chinese might be useful.
 Since the age of five, I started to learn how to draw every single stroke for each character in the correct sequence.
 I learned new characters every day during the course of the next 15 years.
 Since we only have five minutes, it's better that we have a fast and simpler way.
 A Chinese scholar would understand 20,000 characters.
 You only need 1,000 to understand the basic literacy.
 Today I'm going to start with eight to show you how the method works.
 You are ready?
 Open your mouth as wide as possible until it's square.
 You get a mouth.
 This is a person going for a walk.
 Person.
 This is a tree.
 Tree.
 This is a mountain.
 The sun.
 The moon.
 The symbol of the door looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west.
 I call these eight characters radicals.
 They are the building blocks for you to create lots more characters.
 A person.
 If someone walks behind, that is "to follow."
 As the old saying goes, two is company, three is a crowd.
 If a person stretched their arms wide, this person is saying, "It was this big."
 The person inside the mouth, the person is trapped.
 He's a prisoner, just like Jonah inside the whale.
 One tree is a tree. Two trees together, we have the woods.
 Three trees together, we create the forest.
 Put a plank underneath the tree, we have the foundation.
 Put a mouth on the top of the tree, that's "idiot."
 Easy to remember, since a talking tree is pretty idiotic.
 Remember fire?
 Two fires together, I get really hot.
 Three fires together, that's a lot of flames.
 Set the fire underneath the two trees, it's burning.
 For us, the sun is the source of prosperity.
 Two suns together, prosperous.
 Three together, that's sparkles.
 Put the sun and the moon shining together, it's brightness.
 It also means tomorrow, after a day and a night.
 The sun is coming up above the horizon. Sunrise.
 A door. Put a plank inside the door, it's a door bolt.
 Put a mouth inside the door, asking questions.
 Knock knock. Is anyone home?
 This person is sneaking out of a door, escaping, evading.
 On the left, we have a woman.
 Two women together, they have an argument.
 Three women together, be careful, it's adultery.
 So we have gone through almost 30 characters.
 By using this method, the first eight radicals will allow you to build 32.
 The next group of eight characters will build an extra 32.
 So with very little effort, you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters, which is the same as a Chinese eight-year-old.
 So after we know the characters, we start building phrases.
 For example, the mountain and the fire together, we have fire mountain. It's a volcano.
 We know Japan is the land of the rising sun.
 This is a sun placed with the origin, because Japan lies to the east of China.
 