When I was in my 20s, I had my first psychotherapy patient.
I was a doctoral student and studied Clinical psychology in Berkeley.
She was a 26-year-old woman named Alex.
And when I heard this, I was relieved.
My classmate got a arsonist as the first patient.
And I got a woman in the ' 20s wanted to talk about boys.
I'll fix that, I thought to myself.
But I have not fixed it.
"30 is the new 20," said Alex, and as far as I could tell, she was right.
Work came later, Marry later, children came later, death itself came later.
People in the ' 20s, as Alex and I had nothing but time.
But soon, my supervisor urged me to make Alex's love life is in question.
I thought about it.
I said: "Yes, of course, she meets with men below their level, she's sleeping with a knucklehead, but you will not marry him."
And as my supervisor said: "not Yet, but maybe she's getting married the next.
In addition, the best time to work on Alex's marriage, before she is married."
This is what psychologists call an Aha Moment.
That was the Moment I became conscious that 30 is the new 20.
Yes, the people later settled down as before, but the Alex's 20s is not made to the development of failure.
Alex' 20s made for the optimum development time, and we were sitting there and they wasted it.
At this time there are in the United States 50 million people in the ' 20s.
Reports you when you're in your 20s.
I would like to see a few of you.
Oh, yeah! You are all incredible.
This is not my opinion. The facts are facts.
We know that 80% of the most influential moments happen in the time to 35.
Just don't panic, if your over 40.
This group is going to be fine, I think.
We know that the first 10 years of a profession have an exponential impact on how much money you will earn.
We know that 30 is more than half of Americans are married or with a future Partner or a relationship.
In the ' 20s, you should make so, more about the body and the own possibilities.
When we think of the development of a child, we all know that the first 5 years are for language acquisition and retention in the brain is crucial.
It is the time, in the ordinary, everyday life has a huge impact on the future.
But we hear little about the fact that there is such a thing as adult development, and our 20s are a crucial time.
But the people don't get into the 20s to hear.
The press is talking about the shift in time of growing up.
Researchers call the 20s an extended adolescence.
Journalists think of silly nicknames for people in the 20s, such as "Twixters" or "Kidults" [child, adult].
That's true.
As a culture, we have updated the trivia, what is now the decisive decade for the Grown-up.
Leonard Bernstein said that great things with a Plan and not quite enough time to be achieved.
That's not true?
Nothing.
This man is the Ambition and the been there robbed of urgency. and nothing at all happens.
Or you say: "All say that as long as I did it with 30 years to start my career, everything is good."
But later it sounds like this: "My 20s are almost over and I have nothing to show for it.
I had a better CV than I had just graduated from University."
And then it sounds so: "In my 20s Dating like the trip to Jerusalem.
All ran around and had fun, but then with 30 the music suddenly went out and everyone started to sit down.
Where are the people in the ' 20s here?
That doesn't make.
Ok, this is easy to say, but make no mistake, it is very much.
Many of these things are incompatible and, as research findings now show just tedious and stressful so all at once in the ' 30s.
The Post-Millennium mid-life crisis is not to buy a red sports car.
It means that you can't do the career, you want to make.
Remember that you can not have this child, you want to have, or the child has no siblings.
I want to change what people do in their 20s and think.
This is a story that shows how it can happen.
It is the story of Emma.
Emma came into my office when she was 25, because, as you put it, had an identity crisis.
Because it was cheaper, she lived with her boyfriend who was more his Temperament than his ambitions.
And although your 20s were hard, were your years before that, much worse.
She cried often in the meetings, but then she collected herself and said: "Your family you can't pick and choose, but your friends already".
One day Emma was very depressed and cried almost the whole hour.
She was almost hysterical, as she looked at me and said: "Who will be there for me when I got in a car accident?
Who will provide for me when I have cancer?"
At the Moment I had to pull myself together, say to I: "".
But Emma needed no therapist, which was really, really them.
Emma needed a better life and I knew this was her Chance.
In the next few weeks and months, I gave Emma three pieces of advice that you should listen to each of the 20-year-old, whether a man or a woman.
First, I told Emma, she would have no identity crisis, they should acquire rather of identity capital
So I said, you should look for something that would bring you more.
Makes something for you is an investment that invested in something, what do you want to be next.
Now is the time for this international Job, this internship, this Startup, you try wanted.
This is Prokastination.
I said to Emma: Explore the world of work, but make something of it.
Secondly, I said: the urban is overrated kin.
This Something new, this new Person comes to the Dating mostly from outside of their own environment.
New things arise from the so-called "weak alliances", i.e. friends of friends of friends.
It's true: half of The 20s is under-employed or not employed.
But the other half is not there and weak alliances you have there.
Half of all Jobs are never advertised. If you contact the chief of your neighbors, you will receive a non-advertised Job.
This is not a Scam. So information is spread.
The last Council: Emma believed that you can't choose family, but friends.
I told her that the time for a new family to pick, it would be now.
You may think that 30 is better to settle down than 20, or 25, and I agree with you.
But any one you sleep with or live in your life, when everyone is getting married on Facebook, there is no progress.
So what happened with Emma?
We went through her address book and found the roommate of a cousin who worked in another state in a Museum.
This weak Band helped her to get a job.
This job offer gave her the reason to leave her boyfriend, with whom she lived.
Now, five years later, she is an Event planner for museums.
She's married to a man she has deliberately chosen.
Emma's story sounds like everything would be easy. But this is what I, a 20-year-old love.
It is so easy to help you.
20-year-old are ready to go planes leaving the airport and somewhere to the West.
Exactly after the launch, a small change in course can make all the difference, whether you end up in Alaska or Fiji.
This is an idea that should reach all of the 20s, you know.
It is not as easy as what I said to Alex.
Not defined to you about what you know, or not have made.
You decide to just live in the now on your .
Thank You Very Much.
But I've wondered what it would be like if there were no limit.
I imagined how that would look like.
Designers can materialize their ideas directly in 3D material, and surgeons can practice on virtual organs underneath the screen.
With this tool, the limit has been breached.
But our hands still remain outside the screen.
How can we engage with the digital information, interact and the skill to take advantage of our hands?
Because Windows and files have a Position in the actual space, you can select it as easily as one picks up a book from a shelf.
Then you can scroll through this book, and lines and words mark. All of this on the virtual touch pad below each window.
Architects can extend their models directly with your both hands and rotate.
In these two examples, we engage in the digital world.
But how would it be if we turn around the Whole thing once, and the digital information reach us instead?
Sure many of you have already experience in order to buy the items online and later return.
But now you need not to Worry about it anymore.
Here I have a "Online Augmented fitting room".
This point of view one receives through a head-mounted or transparent Display, if the System understands the Geometry of our body.
How would such a future?
At the mit Media Lab, I created together with my Advisor Hirishi Ishii and my collaborator rehmi appeared Post, a real Pixel.
Thank You Very Much.
I was trained for two years in order to be a gymnast, in Hunan, China, in the 1970s.
When I was in the first grade, wanted me to pay for the government to send to a school for athletes, all expenses.
But my mother said: "no."
My parents wanted me to take you to be an engineer.
After you had survived the cultural revolution, they believed that the only way to happiness is a secure and well-paid Job.
It is not important whether I like the Job or not.
But my dream was to be a Chinese Opera singer.
I am, as I play on my imaginary piano.
An Opera singer must start very early with the acrobatics Training. So I tried everything to be able to in the Opera school.
I even wrote to the school Director and the host of a radio show.
But the adults didn't like my idea.
The adults believed that I was serious.
Only my friends supported me, but they were also just kids, just as powerless as myself.
And with 15 years, I knew that I was too old to still with the Training to start.
My dream would be never true.
I was afraid that I couldn't hope for the Rest of my life just a lucky second choice.
But this is so unfair.
So I had set my mind to find a different vocation.
No one there to teach me something? Also a good one.
So I turned to books.
["Sanmaos" ] ["lessons of history" by Nan Huaijin] in 1995, I came to the United States. And which books I read first?
Of course books are banned in China.
"The good earth" is about the life of Chinese peasants.
This is not simply as Propaganda. I understand that.
The Bible is interesting, but strange.
But that's a topic for another Time.
But the fifth commandment gave me a kind of enlightenment: "Thou shalt thy father and thy mother honor."
"Honor", I thought, "this is so different and much better than obedience."
That was my way to set me free from the Confucian sense of guilt, and to renew the relationship with my parents.
Through the encounter with a new culture, I began to read with the comparison ends.
This gives a lot of insight.
I found arranged, for example, this map, first of all, because Chinese students grow up with this here.
It never crossed my mind that China doesn't have to be in the center of the world.
A map can tell us something about the personal perspective.
The comparison at the end nothing New is actually read.
In the academic world, it is a standard procedure.
There are even research areas such as Comparative religion and Comparative literature.
Compared and contrasted to enable a more complex understanding of a topic.
So I thought, well, if comparative reading of the research works, why not in daily life?
So I began to read two books at the same time.
In the case of Christ, the temptations of economic, political and spiritual in nature.
In the case of the Buddha they were all psychological: Lust, fear and social duty -- interesting.
If you speak a foreign language, also makes it fun to read the favorite books in two languages.
By Translation, I have, for example, aware that "happiness" in Chinese literally means "fast joy." Yikes!
"Bride" in Chinese literally means new mother translates to"". Ohoh.
Books for me are like a magical gate. Through them I have a connection to the people of the past and present.
I know that I'll never feel lonely or powerless.
A zerplatzter dream is really nothing compared to what many other.
I came to the conclusion that it is not the only purpose of a dream is to come true.
Its main purpose is to bring us in touch with where dreams come from, where our passion and our happiness come from.
Even a zerplatzter dream can fulfill this purpose.
Due to books I am here today, happy to be back with a purpose in life, and with a clear view, most of the time.
May books be always with you.
Thank You Very Much.
Thank You Very Much.
Thank You Very Much.
When I was 8 years old, came a new girl in the class, and she was so seem to be impressive, so as new girls to always be.
She had pencil-case-long shiny hair and a cute little Write, was good at geography and Spelling.
In that year I raced with jealousy, until I had hatched a diabolical Plan.
So I stayed one day longer in the school, much longer, and kept me in the girls toilet hidden.
As the air was clean, and came out, I snuck into the classroom and took the note book from the teachers Desk.
And then I did it.
I manipulated the notes of my rival, just a little, just a few ones.
All Of The Ones.
When I wanted to put back the book, it occurred to me that some of my other classmates also had pretty good grades.
So I corrected in a jealous rage all the notes, without the fantasy.
I gave all fours and myself, I straight gave in because I was also there the whole time.
I'm still puzzled about my behavior.
I don't understand where the idea came from.
I don't understand why I felt so good about it.
I felt really good.
I also don't understand why I was never punished for it.
It was so obvious.
I was never caught.
But most of all baffles me: Why it bothered me so much that this little girl was so good in the Spell?
Jealousy astounds me.
She is so mysterious, so profound.
We know that babies suffer from jealousy.
As well as primates. Hut singers are, by nature, very susceptible to this.
We know that jealousy is the main reason for suicide among spouses in the United States.
But I've never read a study, which could explain their loneliness, their longevity or their macabre thrill.
For this we must turn to the literature, because the novel is the laboratory in which jealousy, in all its possible forms was analyzed.
Is it an Exaggeration to say that, if we had no jealousy, we would have no literature?
So, no infidelity Helena, not "Odyssey".
No jealous king, no "adventure from 1001 night".
Not A Shakespeare.
We think about Proust, we think of feelings. Is it true?
We think of the little boy to sleep trying.
We think of a piece of cake, lavender tea is immersed.
We forget how rough was his Vision.
We forget how ruthless he is.
These kind of books are for Virginia Woolf as tough as cat gut.
I don't know what cat gut is, but let's say he is impressive.
Let's see why the novel and jealousy, jealousy and Proust fit so well together.
I don't know. I think it is easy to border hard on the pain, because think of what happens when we are jealous.
If we are jealous, we tell ourselves a story.
As the narrator of the story and the audience, we know what Details must you include to push the knife in the Ribs. Is it true?
Jealousy makes us all Amateur novelists, and so Proust knew.
Everything, what you to me and what gives me joy, it could also be somebody else's pleasure, perhaps even in this Moment."
We have to admit that Swann and Proust are notoriously jealous.
Proust's friends would have had to leave the country, if you want to do with him would end.
You do not need to be jealous, to admit that it is hard work. Is it true?
Jealousy is tiring.
It is a hungry feeling that must be nurtured.
What may be the jealousy?
Jealousy like information.
Jealousy likes Details.
Jealousy, like pencil-case-long shiny hair and cute little Write.
Jealousy likes photos.
That is why Instagram is so successful.
Basically, Proust links the language of science, and of the jealousy.
If Swann is looking for this zeal relapses learns, suddenly, at the door listening to the servants of his Lover's features, he is defending this behavior.
He says: "There are scientific studies with real intellectual value."
Grief, humiliation, loss the is for Proust the path to wisdom.
He tells us that we should search for cruel women?
No. I think he's trying to tell us that jealousy tells us something about ourselves.
There is a different feel to it, which opens us in this special way?
Any other feeling reveals to us our Aggression, our hidden ambitions, and our claim?
Teaches us some different feel with such strange intensity.
Freud was later to write about it.
One day was visited Freud from a very worried young man who was consumed by the thought that his wife is cheating.
And Freud says: This man is kind of weird, because he looks once, what makes his wife.
Because she is innocent, and everyone knows it.
The poor creature is groundless under suspicion.
Instead, he looks to the things that his wife, without noticing it, so unintentional behavior.
She smiles too much or it crashes randomly with a man?
[Freud] says that the man the guardian is the sub-consciousness of his wife.
The novel is very good at this point.
The novel describes very well how the jealousy of us is training intensely, but not look closely.
Because the more jealous we are, the more it draws us to fantasies.
Therefore, I do not think that jealousy causes us to do violent or illegal things.
Jealousy causes us to be very inventive.
I think of myself 8 years ago, but I also think of the story I've heard in the news.
For a whole year.
She tried to push the new girlfriend of her Ex-boyfriend in the shoes and I have to admit, when I heard that, I reacted with admiration.
Because... Let's be honest.
The immense, albeit misplaced, creativity. Is it true?
This is something out of a novel.
This is something out of a novel by Patricia Highsmith.
Highsmith is one of my favorite writers.
She is the most brilliant and strangest woman in the American literature.
We take Tom Ripley, her most famous character.
This is a method.
But what should we do? We can't do it like Tom Ripley.
I can't give it to the whole world foursome, even if I would make it on some days.
It is a shame, because we live in a envious time.
We live in a "jealousy-prone" time.
We are all good citizens of social media, where the currency is envy. Is it true?
The novel shows us the way out? I'm not sure.
We don't do what the characters do, if you are not sure if you are in possession of a puzzle.
We go to 221B Baker Street and ask for Sherlock Holmes.
The people think of Holmes, they think of his Nemesis Professor Moriarty, this ingenious criminals.
This is so familiar to me.
Lestrade needs his help, resents him, and foams in the course of the stories, so to speak, before the bitterness.
We are proud of you."
And he adds, that it is not at Scotland Yard, Sherlock Holmes did not shake the Hand.
It seems as if jealousy is not an emotional but a physical Problem.
In a Moment, Holmes is on a different wave length as Lestrade.
And in the next Moment you are on the same wavelength.
All of a sudden it allows Lestrade to admire this genius, and he resents him.
Is it really that easy?
What if jealousy really would be only a physical Problem? If it were only a question of how we are in relationship ""?
Maybe we would take not one's excellence of evil.
We could align with each other.
But I like contingency plans.
While we are waiting, we still have the literature as a consolation.
Literature alone is riddled jealousy.
Literature alone can tame, invites you.
And who is there everything comes together: the good, Lestrade, terrifying Tom Ripley, the crazy Swann, Marcel Proust himself.
We are in excellent company.
Thank You Very Much.
It was a beautiful day.
The forest sparkled.
We came to our campground.
I saw the little hut on top of a cliff and looked out over a crystal clear, beautiful lake, as me, something Horrible struck.
Behind the roof is a garbage dump, maybe 4 square foot of enclosures, with Apple Core, a concentrated aluminum foil and an old gym Shoe.
I was amazed, I was angry and confused.
The question stayed with me and I generalized you:
Who cleans up after us?
As you look at it, or where the "us" may be, who cleans up after us in Istanbul?
Who cleans up after us in Rio? Or in Paris or in London?
Here in New York city cleaning cleans every day approximately 11,000 tons of garbage and 2,000 tons of recycled materials.
I wanted to understand who is doing the Job.
What is it like to wear a Uniform and bear this burden?
So I started a research project with them.
I had to go deeper.
So, I took a Job as a cleaner.
I drove cars with the load. I drove the trucks.
And I operated the mechanical broom and plowed the snow.
It was a remarkable privilege and exciting experience.
Everyone asks for the stench.
He is there but not as present as you think, and on days when it is really bad, you get used to it.
To the weight you used to.
Then the risk is there.
According to statistics of the Ministry of labour, the profession is in the city cleaning among the 10 most dangerous Jobs in the country. And I learned why.
You will pass the whole day in the traffic, everything is rushing.
All want to get past, and often the motorist is not fit enough.
This is really bad for the workers.
And the garbage itself is full of poisons, falling from the garbage truck down and do Terrible things.
I also learned about the ruthlessness of garbage.
When you step from the curb and from the back of the garbage truck in a city, you will discover that trash is like a force of Nature.
He does not cease to arise.
He is also like a kind of breathing or circulation.
He must always be in motion.
And then the Stigma is there.
They are the guardians of the public health.
Diseases that we had for decades and centuries under control, it would spread and hurt us.
The economy needs you.
I will not promote capitalism, I would point to the exchange relationship.
And then the, what I call our average, necessary, everyday speed is there.
I mean just how fast we are in movement today.
We don't care to repair our coffee cups, our pocket, or our water bottle, to clean, or to carry around.
We take you, throw you, forget you, because we know that there are people on the other side, take care of that.
Your work, I think, is kind of liturgical.
You can see the streets each day, regularly.
They wear uniforms in many cities.
You know when you can expect.
And your work makes us our do.
They are like an insurance policy.
And he looked at me and nodded and said: "All will be well." --
"All will be well."
Later, I began my Research on the city cleaning and met the man again.
His Name is Paulie, and we worked together often; after all, we were good friends.
I wanted to believe that Paulie was right.
Everything will be fine.
Urban waste, what we think of when we talk about garbage, makes up three percent of the national waste stream.
It is a remarkable statistic.
Take a Moment to say thank you.
Hello, TEDWomen, what's up?
That's not enough.
Hello, TEDWomen, what's up?
My Name is Zayed Maysoon and I'm not drunk, but the doctor at my birth.
He cut my mom six Times in six different directions and the poor boy got in the air.
That is why I have cerebral palsy, which means that I zappele all the time.
Look.
It is exhausting. I'm a cross of Shakira, Shakira and Muhammad Ali.
Cerebral palsy is not genetic.
It is not a birth defect. You can't get.
No one has bewitched the womb of my mother, and I didn't get it because my parents are Cousins of the first degree, what you are.
You can get them only by accident, like the one that happened on the day of my birth.
Come with me short.
It is shortly before Christmas in the shopping centre. You turn circles looking for a Parking lot and what do you see?
Sixteen empty disabled Parking spaces.
And you think: "Why I can't be hindered a little bit?"
I must also tell you: I've got 99 problems and palsy is just one of them.
If there were an Olympics of oppression, I would get a gold medal.
I'm Palestinian, Muslim, female, disabled and I live in New Jersey.
If you don't feel better now, I don't know.
Cliffside Park, New Jersey is my hometown.
I love the fact that my affliction and my place of residence have the same initials.
I also love the fact that I could run from my house to New York City, if I wanted to.
Many people with CP don't walk, but my parents did not believe in a "can't".
The Mantra of my father's was: "Yes, you can! You can."
So, if my three older sisters wiped, I wiped.
My father taught me to Walk when I was five, he placed my heels on his feet and just walking around.
Another one of his tactics was to leave a dollar bill in front of me dangling, so I start you.
At that time there were only six Arabs in my town and all my family.
Today, we have 20 Arabs in town, and they are still all my family.
I don't think anyone has ever noticed that we are not Italians.
That was before the 11. September, and before politicians thought it was appropriate, "I hate Muslims" as a campaign slogan to use.
The people I grew up with, had no Problem with my Faith.
They were, however, quite concerned that I might starve to death for Ramadan, maybe.
I explained to them that I could live off my body fat for three whole months, so fasting from dawn to game a children.
I have quilted on Broadway.
Yes, on Broadway. Totally crazy.
My parents couldn't afford physical therapy, so they sent me to the school dance.
I learned how to dance in heels, so I can run in heels.
And I'm from Jersey, where it is really important to be chic, so if my Girlfriends heels wore, then I also.
And when my friends spent their summer holidays on the coast of Jersey, then I don't.
But a miracle cure: Yoga found.
I must say, it is really boring, but before I did Yoga I was a Stand-up Comedian who can't stand change.
Now I can stand on the head.
Due to the promotion of minorities, I got a great scholarship to ASU, Arizona State University, because I took every minority.
I was basically the house of the acting faculty of monkey.
All loved me.
I did all the homework of the not-so-bright kids, got in all of my classes getting a's, got in all of your courses straight.
Every Time I played a scene from "The glass menagerie", were sobbing, my teacher.
But I never got a role.
In my final year of the ASU planning, finally a piece with the title "they dance in Jackson real slow."
A piece about a girl with CP.
I was a girl with CP.
So I cheered everywhere: "Finally I get a role!
I have cerebral palsy!
Free at last! Free at last!
Thank God I'm free at last!"
I didn't get the role.
Sherry Brown got the part.
I said: "excuse me, but if I can't do the Stunts, then the character can't you."
I was literally born for this role and they gave you a actress without CP.
The Uni imitated life.
Hollywood is a pathetic way to have able-bodied actors, disabled play.
After graduation, I moved back home. My first role was as an extra in a soap Opera.
My dream came true.
And I knew that I would soon ascend from the "restaurant guest" to "crazy best friend".
You were only perfect people.
But exceptions confirm the rule.
I grew up with Whoopi Goldberg, Roseanne Barr and Ellen, and all of these women had one thing in common: they were comedians on the inside.
So I was a standup comedian.
I have performed in Clubs anywhere in the USA, I have also made Shows in the Middle East, Arabic, uncensored and naked.
Some people say I'm the first comedian in the Arab world.
The equality of Arabs was much, much easier than the challenge against the Stigma of disability to arrive.
My big breakthrough of 2010.
I was invited as a guest in the news program "Countdown with Keith Olbermann".
I came to the prom dressed in, you pushed me into a Studio and sat me on a swivel chair with rollers.
I looked at the stage Manager and said: "excuse me, can I get another chair?"
And she looked at me and said: "Five, four, three, two ..."
And we were live!
There was my Chance and I had messed up, and I knew the charge me again.
But Mr. Olbermann is not invited me, but made me a full-time employee and was glued to my chair.
When working with Keith Olbermann, I learned something Amazing: All the people on the Internet are scumbags.
People say children are cruel, but as a child or adult has ever called me funny.
The World Wide Web I'm with my disability suddenly fair game.
When I look at the online Videos, I see comments like: "Hey, why is it twitching like that?"
"Ey, this is crazy?"
And my favorite: "Low hanging lips-Terrorist.
She has a disease?
We should pray for you."
One even suggested that my disability in the Credits: screenwriter, comedian, palsy.
A disability is as visible as the origin.
The disabled are the largest -- are Yes. This is worthy of applause. Los.
People with disabilities are the largest minority in the world and we are the most in the entertainment industry.
The Doctors said I could never run, but I'm sitting here in front of you.
But I would have grown up with social media, I would perhaps not here.
I hope that together, we can create a more positive image of disability in the media and in everyday life.
Maybe there would be less hatred in the Internet, if there were more positive role models.
Or maybe not.
Maybe it still needs a village to raise a child well.
My journey, with detours, has brought me to a few very special places.
I was able to operas on the red carpet, alongside soap-Star Susan Lucci and the iconic Lorraine Arbus to run.
I was allowed to play in a movie with Adam Sandler and with my Idol, the wonderful Dave Matthews, work.
I am as the main character with the Comedy Tour "Arabs Gone Wild" traveled around the world.
I was a representative of the great state of New Jersey at the Democratic National Committee in 2008.
That was the only Time my father ever Live saw the appearance of me, and I dedicate the remembrance of this lecture to him.
: May God have mercy on your soul, dad. My Name is Maysoon Zayid: "If I can, you can, too."
There was a time in which we solved big problems.
21. July 1969 climbed up Buzz Aldrin from the lunar module of Apollo 11 and descended to the sea of tranquility.
The Apollo program was the largest peace mobilization in the history of the United States of America.
To get to the moon, invested in NASA about 180 billion dollars according to the current value, or four percent of the Federal budget.
Apollo created jobs for 400,000 people and demanded the collaboration of 20,000 companies, universities and authorities.
People died, including the crew of Apollo 1.
But by the end of the Apollo program flew 24 people to the moon.
Of the twelve, who trod its surface, Aldrin, following the death of Armstrong last year, is now the oldest.
But why did they go to?
Why did you go? Cynical seen you went, because President Kennedy wanted to show the Soviets that his Nation had the better rockets.
But Kennedy's own words from 1962 at Rice University, will give a better clue.
For the time Apollo was not only enjoyed a victory of the West over the East during the Cold war.
At that time the strongest feeling a sense of wonder at the supernatural powers of technology.
They flew to the moon, because it was something Great.
The moon landing happened in front of a backdrop of a long series of technological triumphs.
From the first half of the 20th century. Century, the Assembly line and the airplane, Penicillin and a vaccine against tuberculosis.
In the middle of the century, Polio and smallpox were eradicated.
Technology seemed to have something of what Alvin Toffler in 1970 called an "accelerated push".
Since 1970, no human beings were on the moon.
I still remember how I, as a five-year-old
the Lift-off of Apollo 17 saw, and my mother warned me to look in the fiery exhaust of the Saturn V rocket.
The saying "something happened with our ability to solve big problems with technology" has become a platitude.
You hear it everywhere.
We have heard here in the last two days at TED.
There is nothing wrong with the most of these things.
You have extended our lives and enriched.
But you can't solve the big problems of humanity.
What happened?
In Silicon Valley it is said that the markets would be to blame, in Particular the premiums, which risk investors in the company.
But this explanation is not good enough for me.
It mainly explains what's wrong with Silicon Valley.
No, the reasons why we are not a large Problem can solve are more complicated and profound.
Sometimes we don't consciously decide to fix the big problems.
We could fly to Mars, if we want to.
NASA has even designed a Plan.
But to fly to Mars is a political decision of public popularity, and that's why it will never happen,
We will not fly to Mars, because everyone thinks that there is here on earth more important things that need to be done.
Other Times we can't solve the big problems, because our political systems fail.
Coal and natural gas are cheaper than solar energy and Wind, and petroleum is cheaper than biofuels.
We are all alternative energy sources want to be able to keep up the price. But it is not exist.
Sometimes profound problems, which appeared to be technically solvable, but not so.
It was long believed that famines lie in the Failure of the food supply.
Ultimately the big problems will not be deprived of sometimes the solutions because we understand the Problem correctly.
Difficult problems are difficult.
It is not true that we can't solve big problems with technology.
The Apollo mission, which was to be a kind of metaphor for the ability of technology to solve big problems, met these criteria.
But this is a model of what can not be repeated in the future.
It's not the year of 1961.
Most of all, however, it was flying at the end of simply, to the moon.
He was only three days away.
And it is debatable whether this has really solved a serious Problem.
We are on our own, and the solutions of the future will be more difficult to achieve.
Don't know God, we are missing a least of challenges.
Thank You Very Much.
I would like to invite you to close your eyes.
Imagine you are standing in front of your door.
Look at the door, their color and the Material is made from the you.
Now, imagine a group of overweight nudists on bicycles.
It is race a naked bike and you're right on top of you and your front door.
You have to imagine really.
You scramble, sweating, and wabbeln directly to you.
And then you crash all in your doorstep.
Bikes, wheels, everything flies criss-cross. Spokes are wedged in precarious Positions.
The light seems to be the cookie monster.
It beckons to you from the back of a yellow-brown horse.
A talking horse.
You can almost feel his blue fur tickling your nose.
You smell the chocolate biscuit, shoves it in the mouth.
Go past him, passing in your living room.
Here is imagine with all the power of your imagination Britney Spears.
Their dresses cover only the most necessary of All, she sings "Hit Me Baby One More Time", while she dances on your living room table.
Now follow me into your kitchen.
Okay. Now the eyes open.
I would like to tell you about a very bizarre contest that is held every year in the spring in New York City.
It's called the "United States Memory Championship".
It's a bunch of guys and a few ladies, of different age and standard of hygiene.
They were after a unique Look at hundreds of random Numbers.
Learned the names of dozens and dozens of Unknown
and all the poems noted in only a few minutes.
They competed to see who could memorize the order of a mixed deck the fastest.
This is crazy.
These people need to have supernatural abilities.
I began to entertain me with some of them.
This here is Ed Cook, a guy who came here from England and there is one of the best trained memories.
And I asked him, "Ed, when you have noticed that you have this special talent?"
And Ed said, "I'm not a Savant.
I have only an average memory.
Everyone competing here, will you confirm that he or she has only an average memory.
And I just thought, "Wow, how come I've never heard of it?"
Are you Britney Spears?"
I: "What? Nah. Why?"
"I would like to teach Britney Spears how to learn the order of the mixed decks of cards by heart. In The U. S. Television.
It would prove that the here, everyone can."
I told him, "I'm Britney Spears, but you could teach me.
I mean, Yes you have to start somewhere, right?"
And that was the beginning of a very strange trip for me.
I've met a lot of really interesting people.
This is, for example, E. P.
He suffers from memory loss and probably the worst memory in the world.
His memory is not so bad that he even recall his memory problem. What is amazing.
Even though it was so tragic, he offered insight into how much of our memory to us the power of who we are.
On the other side of the spectrum, I learned
Kim Peek know.
He was the template for Dustin Hoffman's character in the movie "Rain Man."
And I've learned a whole bunch of really interesting things.
There was a time invested, the people in your memory, it is furnished elaborately.
These technologies have enabled our modern world, but at the same time changed.
They've changed us culturally, and I would argue that you have changed cognitively.
To remind without the need of, it sometimes seems as if we have forgotten how to do this.
In fact, he is not so unique, there are competitions like this all over the world.
And that has drawn me into the spell, I wanted to know how these people do it.
A few years ago, a research group has brought to the University College London, a group of Memory Champions into the lab.
They wanted to know: Is the structure or anatomy of their brains differently than the Rest of us?
The answer was: no.
They are smarter than we are?
You gave them a stack of cognition tests, and the answer was: not Really.
It seems that you would use the part of your memory, to Remember the spatial and scroll is used.
Why? And we can learn from the other something out of this?
This is my friend Ben Pridmore, three-time memory champion of the world.
He used a similar technique to the exact order of 4 140 random binary numbers in half an hour to memorize.
Yes.
That's his Name.
And to you I say, "mark you, that there is a Person, a Baker."
If I come back now to a later point in time to you and say, "remember the word that I said to you some time ago?
Do you remember what word it was?"
Same word, different memory; that is strange.
What's going on here?
Well, the Name Baker means nothing to you.
He is absolutely independent of all of the memorabilia, the buzz in your head around.
But the profession of the Baker, we know bakers.
Bakers wear funny white hats.
Bakers have flour on your hands.
The bakery smells good when you come home from work.
Perhaps we even know of a bakery.
One of the more sophisticated techniques can be dated back 2 500 years back to the ancient Greeks.
She was known as the memory Palace.
The story of its creation goes as follows: There was a Poet named Simonides, who attended a feast.
He contributes his poem from memory, and leaves the room. At exactly the Moment the hall collapses behind him, and buries all the guests.
Not only are all dead, their bodies are disfigured beyond recognition.
No one can say who was present, no one knows where who sat.
The body cannot be properly buried.
It is a tragedy after the other.
And so he takes the verb lovers by the Hand and leads you through the debris of the deceased.
I would like to ask you to repeat the first ten words of the story about Simonides, you would find it difficult.
This is a piece of advice that goes back to the 2 000-year-old Latin texts about memory.
How does it work?
You could do: imagine yourself in front of your door.
And then you go in your house and see the cookie monster on the back of Mr. Ed.
And that would remind you, your friend Ed Cook to present.
And if you see Britney Spears, you remember a funny anecdote that you wanted to tell.
The English term "topic sentence", the subject of a descriptive sentence, comes from the Greek word "topos," which means "abode".
The Remains of it, as the people through speeches and rhetoric, thought of in spatial terms.
The phrase "in the first place" really means: "In the first place in your memory Palace."
I found it all simply fascinating and am still
to fight some of the other memory-betting dangers.
I thought I might write something Longer about this subculture of competitive remembering.
But there was a Problem.
The Problem is that the memory-competitions totlangweilige events.
It's like a group of people that sit there and write a Test.
It is exciting when someone rubs his temple.
I'm a Journalist, I need something to write about what it is worth.
I know that some of the most stunning things to happen in the minds of these people, but I have no access to it.
So if I wanted to tell this story, I had to put myself in their position.
And so I started to learn every Morning for 15 to 20 minutes, before I sit down with my newspaper, something by heart.
Maybe a poem or
the names from an old Yearbook that I bought at the flea market.
I had to realize that it is amazing fun.
I could imagine the never.
It was fun, because it comes to train the memory.
I immersed myself in it.
Here I am training set with my Standard memory competition.
I went to the same Competition, the I a year earlier had visited
and I wanted to participate, only so as a journalistic Experiment.
It could be a nice epilogue for my Research.
The Problem was that the Experiment proceeded as planned.
I won the Competition, what should not happen really would.
It was nice to be able to Talk to memorize and phone numbers and shopping lists, but that was not what I wanted to achieve.
These are just Tricks.
One of the Tricks that work because they are based on some simple ideas about the function of our brain.
We often talk of people with a good memory, as it would be a special talent, but that is not true.
Good memories are trained.
We remember things better if we are not careful.
We remember, when we are engaged.
The memory Palace, these memory techniques, you are all just abbreviations.
In fact, there are not even real abbreviations.
They work because they force us.
They force us to process and to be attentive, in a way, we are not there normally.
But there are no shortcuts.
So things will be anchored in the memory.
I've learned that the memory has in each of us, incredible capacity.
If we want to live a memorable life, we need to be the Person to remember not to forget.
Thank you.
At the age of 27 I left a stressful Job in management consulting for a more challanging: to teach.
In public schools in New York, I taught math for Seventh-graders.
Like any teacher, I carried out Tests and examinations.
I gave up on homework.
As the Work came back, I calculated grades.
The IQ was not the only difference between the best and worst students.
The IQ's of some of my strongest students were not stratosphere.
Some of my brightest children fared particularly well.
It made me think.
What in the 7. The school year in math learning is difficult: Rational Numbers, decimals, the area of a parallelogram.
So I left the class room and postgraduate study to the psychologist.
My research team and I went to West Point military Academy.
We tried to predict which cadets would stay with the troops, training and what not.
We went to the national spelling bee and tried to predict which children would come on most.
We concluded partnerships with private companies and asked, what is seller to keep their job
and who would earn the most money.
In all these different contexts, a property that has emerged as a key note to success.
For us, it wasn't social intelligence.
It wasn't good looks, physical health, and it wasn't IQ.
It was perseverance.
Perseverance, passion and perseverance for very long-term goals.
Perseverance is stamina.
Perseverance life is like a Marathon, not a Sprint.
Some time ago I started, in public schools in Chicago, and perseverance.
The Most frightening this issue is for me that we know so little that science knows so little about how to build it.
Every day, parents and teachers ask me: "How can we support the children's assets?"
How do I teach kids a solid work ethic?
How do I keep them for distance runs motivated?"
The honest answer: I don't know.
What I do know, however, that Talent alone is not is perseverance.
Our data clearly show that many talented people of their devotion to remain faithful.
In fact, assets to the best of our knowledge, usually not talent related is through, but even correlates inversely with Talent.
As far as the best idea I've heard concerning the structure of resilience, is the so-called growth-oriented setting.
This growth-oriented attitude is a great idea for the building.
But we need more.
Here I would like to finish my remarks, we're already so far.
This is the work that lies ahead of us.
We need to keep our best ideas and strongest intuitions and test them.
In other words, We stamina need to give our children more stamina.
Thank You Very Much.
Today I as an example .two current projects are brought in.
Both projects are in emerging countries, one in Ethiopia and one in Tunisia.
They also have in common that the different analyses from different perspectives are an essential part of the final architecture.
The first example started with an invitation to design a multi-storey shopping Mall in Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa.
This is the kind of building that was to us, my Team and me, shown as an example for what we should design.
At first, I thought that I wanted to run away.
Firstly, these buildings are almost empty because they are home to very large shops, where people can't afford to buy things.
In a city that should not happen, because you have pretty mild weather, throughout the year between 20 to 25 degrees.
And thirdly, your Image is nothing to do with Africa and Ethiopia.
This is a shame in a place with such a rich culture and Tradition.
It also has this idea of public space, the uses of the outdoor area to create activity.
So I thought, this is exactly what I want to design really, not a Shopping Mall.
But the question was how we could design a multi-storey, contemporary building with these principles.
It is also located between two parallel streets, which have over hundreds of meters no connection.
First, we created a connection between these two streets, and laid there all entrances to the building.
This cavity, we placed the idea of a market with small shops that change in each floor because of the shape of the cavity.
I also thought: How close are we to the building?
I really wanted to find a solution that responds to the local climate conditions.
These beautiful buttons inspired me on the clothes Ethiopian women.
You have the properties of a fractal Geometry and that helped me to make the entire facade.
and this is complemented by these small colored glasses, the use of the light from inside the building to illuminate the building at night.
So we have created some cost savings, which we used in order to realize the project.
We have created a valuable contribution, by installing solar panel on the roof.
In these Panels we imagined the roof as a new public space with lounge areas and Bars, create this urban oasis.
These canopies on the roof to collect the water for re-use in the toilets.
Hopefully the beginning of next year, because we have the construction up to 5. Floor already done.
The second example is a master plan for 2,000 apartments and facilities in Tunis.
The last step was on the cell, the small cell of the project to think about, such as the apartment, as an essential part of the master plan.
What is the best orientation in a Mediterranean climate for an apartment would be?
The is North-South, due to the difference in temperature between the two sides of the House, which is so created and a natural ventilation is created.
So we set a pattern, which ensures that most of the apartments are perfectly aligned in this direction.
And this is the result, it is almost like a combination of the European block and the Arab city.
There are the blocks with courtyards and on the ground floor there are all these Connections for pedestrians.
It also meets the local regulations, which set a higher density in the upper floors and a lower density on the ground floor.
It also reinforces the concept of goals.
The roof, my favorite place in this project, gives back to the community almost the space that is taken up by the construction.
These two examples have a common approach to the design process.
They are in emerging countries where you can see the cities literally grow.
Thank You Very Much.
I would like to talk about trust, and I would like to remind you of the popular opinions about trust.
There are in my view three.
First, a statement: trust is strong in the decline, many believe.
Then, a goal: We should have more confidence.
And a task: We should rebuild the trust again.
I believe that the statement, the aim and the task are based on false ideas.
First the claim: Why do people think trust has declined?
And if I really think about with my current Knowledge about it: I don't know the answer.
Maybe it has declined in some activities or facilities, and in others it may increase.
To me, the Overview is missing.
But I can look at, of course, the surveys that are supposed to be the source for the Belief that the trust is gone.
You look at opinion polls over a period of time, there is a lot of evidence.
So to speak, the people which have been trusted 20 years ago, distrusted, mainly journalists and politicians, and still miss.
And the people, which before 20 years, very familiar, is still very trusted: judges, nurses.
The rest of us lie in between. By the way, the average citizen is almost exactly in the middle.
But this is a good proof?
What could you collect?
Look at the General attitude of the people, when you are asked certain questions.
You Trust Politicians? You Trust Teachers?
If you asked someone to trust you vegetable dealers?
Do You Trust Fishmongers?
Do You Trust Elementary School Teachers?
And that would be a sensible reaction.
And if you understand the answer, they might say, "I don't trust some of them, but not in others."
Completely rational.
In short, we try in our short life, trust in different types of install.
Maybe I don't know for a fact that you drive well.
I trust that my chat keeps most girlfriend a conversation going, but maybe not, that you maintain a secret.
Easy.
Secondly, we come to the goal.
The goal is to trust more.
Honestly, I think the goal is stupid.
I would target.
I would try the trusted more to not trust the untrusted.
I'm not even active to trust untrusted.
"More trust" is not a smart goal in this life.
Confidence wise, and refuse it should be the aim.
And then you say, yeah, okay, so what is the most important, is not trust, but trustworthiness.
The trustworthiness to be able to nature of people's perceptions.
And to do that, we need to consider three things:
You are not competent? They are honest? You are reliable?
The Person is unreliable, then probably.
Some of my friends are competent and honest, I would let them but no letter sending, because you are forgetful.
I have friends who trust in their own competence, but these overestimate a lot.
And I am very glad that I have many friends who are competent and reliable, but dishonest.
If it is, I have not detected it yet.
But then we are looking for: first trust, then trust.
Trust the response.
The trust we need to assess. This is, of course, difficult.
Many of these systems have the opposite effect.
They do not work as intended.
A midwife once said to me: "The Problem is that the paperwork takes longer than to bring the Baby to the world."
It is people such as midwives of their difficult tasks distract you by, you must first set the flags.
This can certainly help in each of the examples.
So much for the goal.
It is not easy. You have to judge it. Simple reactions or attitudes are not enough.
And now, to the task.
To describe this as a rebuilding of confidence, twisted the facts again.
Because it suggests that you and I trust should build.
We can of course do that for ourselves.
We can win a bit of trust.
So two people can do to improve your trust in each other.
But in the end, trust is characterized in that it is given by others.
You can't build the other one.
You have to give them a base that you trust.
So you have to be trustworthy.
This is, of course, the fact that you can't normally result in all people at the same time, around by the nose.
But you must also bring evidence that you are trustworthy.
How is that possible?
This happens every day, everywhere. Normal people do it, officials, Offices, very effective.
Here is a simple commercial example.
The Shop where I buy my socks, can you bring me back and ask no questions.
Take it back and give me back the money, or a pair of socks in the color you want.
This is great. I trust you because you have shown towards me vulnerable.
This is an important morale is.
Our goal is not to recognize, in principle, very difficult.
There are relations between trusted people, and the ability to assess when and whether the other is trustworthy.
Thank you.
You know, the Best Father in the movies, I can look for me.
The movie has not released for months.
Her favorite character was, of course, Glinda.
So you had a good excuse to wear a sparkly dress and a wand in.
But if you look at this movie often enough, you realize how extraordinary he really is.
We live in the present time and raise our children in a kind of spectacular children's fantasy - industrial machinery.
But "The wizard of Oz" was different.
He has not started this Trend.
You know what I'm talking about, is it?
Exactly.
First of all there is in "The wizard of Oz", very little violence.
The monkeys are pretty aggressive, as are the Apple trees.
Use your magic shoes to defeat the computer generated armies of the wicked witch of the West."
But it's not happening.
I noticed the first Time I showed my daughter the "Star Wars", which years later was, and the Situation was different.
At that time, I also have a son.
He was just three years old.
He was not invited to this movie night. For this, he was still too young.
But he was the second child and he was by far the supervised less than his sister.
And I asked myself, what he has absorbed.
He has picked up that it's not about courage, perseverance and loyalty?
He picked up that Luke accession an army, to overthrow the government?
Compare that to "The wizard of Oz" from 1939.
How does Dorothy your movie to a good end?
By is with all of the friends and a leader.
However, I have not read so much about how guys deal with this influence.
I think there was this Moment with the first kiss, as I had really expected that the closing credits start, because that's the way a movie ends, is it?
I have completed my Mission, I got the girl.
Why are you just standing there?
I don't know what to do.
It almost seems as if you're a feeble-minded animal, and if you are a girl, you should bring better his war costume.
There are a bunch of exceptions and I will defend the Disney princesses in front of each of them.
But they do not pass on a message to the young that the young are actually the target audience.
There are no role models for them.
I recommend him to all of you. He is available on the Internet.
Do you remember what the critics said, as the "Merida" came out?
"Oh, I can't believe Pixar senses a Prince movie."
He is very good. Don't let it deter you from.
But none of these films passed the Bechdel Test.
I don't know if you've heard about it.
He has not yet so properly and gained in importance, but perhaps we will start a movement.
It is quite simple. There are only three questions you need to ask: Is there more than one character in the Film is female and says something?
Try it once to satisfy this requirement.
And these women speak to at any time of the film?
And it comes in your conversation to something else, as the guy, you like both?
Understood? Thank you.
Thank You Very Much.
Two women who exist and talk to each other about anything.
Something like this happens. I've seen it, and yet I see it pretty rarely in the movies that we know and love.
In fact, I went this week to the cinema, to me, a very good movie, "Argo".
He falls with waving banners through the Bechdel Test.
So some Hollywood.
So let us take a look at the Numbers throw.
In the year 2011, among the 100 most popular movies, what do you think, how many of those actually had female protagonists?
Eleven. It's not bad.
It's not as many percent as the number of women that we have elected in the Congress, so that's good.
But there are a number that is larger than this, and will shake the room.
Last year, the New York Times has published a study carried out by the government.
It says that
one out of five women in the US, indicating that she was assaulted in her life already sexually.
I don't think that is the fault of the General entertainment culture.
I don't think that children's movies have anything to do with it.
Who are these guys? What will you learn?
What you don't manage to learn?
We take this story?
The Netflix queue is a means by which we can something very Important to do, and I am speaking here primarily to the fathers.
I think we need to show our sons a new Definition of masculinity.
The Definition of manhood is already beginning to change.
You have read how the New Economy is changing the roles of house wife and breadwinner.
They are jumbled up into a mess.
When I asked my daughter who her favorite character in "Star Wars", you know, what did you say?
Obi-Wan.
Obi-Wan Kenobi and Glinda.
What do these two have in common?
Maybe it's not just the sparkling dress.
I think these two characters are experts.
Also, you are a leader.
To me, this kind of task for my daughter and I like this kind of task for my son.
I want more tasks like this.
Thank You Very Much.
I would like to speak with you about the story of a small town child.
I don't know his name, but his story.
He lives in a small village in the South of Somalia.
His village is located in the vicinity of Mogadishu.
The drought caused the poverty of this village and the approaching starvation.
As there was nothing more that kept him there, he left his village and went to the city, in this case, Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia.
When he arrives, there's no opportunities, no jobs, no way out.
In the end, he is in a tent camp outside of Mogadishu.
It goes by maybe a year, but nothing.
One day he is approached by a man who invites him to lunch, then to dinner, then for Breakfast.
He meets this dynamic group of young people, and you give him a Chance.
He gets a little money to buy new clothes and send money home to his family.
He is introduced to this young woman.
Finally, he marries.
He starts a new life.
His life has meaning.
On a beautiful day in Mogadishu, under the azure blue sky, a car bomb goes in the air.
He had been waiting for.
He had been waiting for an opportunity, in the future, a way out, and it was the first opportunity that was offered to him.
It was the first thing that pulled him out of a condition we call "Waithood".
And his story is repeated again and again in the urban areas around the world.
Often it is the youth that suffers from high unemployment.
In the year 2030, three out of five inhabitants in the towns and cities under the age of 18 years.
In my city of birth, Mogadishu, suffering 70% of young people under unemployment.
70% have no work, to school.
Do you actually do anything.
Last month, I went back to Mogadishu and I went to Madina hospital, the hospital where I was born.
I remember how I stood in front of this bullet-riddled hospital and asked me, what if I had never gone away from here?
What if I would have been forced to the same state of "Waithood"?
I would have become a Terrorist?
I'm not sure what I should answer.
I brought together around 90 young Somali leaders.
We sat together and made a Brainstorming to find solutions to the greatest challenges of their city.
In the room, a young man, Aden.
He attended the University in Mogadishu, where he made his statements.
There was no work and no opportunities.
They were looking for people like him.
But this story takes a different course.
In Mogadishu, the biggest obstacles are to get from A to B, the roads.
23 years of civil war have destroyed the road system completely, so that the motorcycle is the best means of locomotion.
Aden recognized the opportunity and seized it.
He opened a motorcycle business.
He began to rent bikes to Locals who could not afford them otherwise.
How is this story of the other?
What makes the difference?
I think it is his ability to recognize a new opportunity and to use.
It is the entrepreneurial spirit and I believe that entrepreneurial spirit can be the most effective means against "Waithood".
It young people are encouraged to create the economic opportunities that you are looking for so desperately.
You can teach young people to be entrepreneurs.
I would like to speak with you about a young man who attended one of my Meetings: Mohamed Mohamoud, a Florist.
So, Mohamed saw an opportunity.
He founded a landscape nursery with a flower shop.
There is no public Park in Mogadishu.
He wanted to create a place where families and young people come together and how he, the beautiful things of life can enjoy says.
By the way: He grows roses, because you need a lot of water.
They had never really thought about it, to start a business.
You thought about working for an NGO or for the government, but this story, its Innovation, had a strong influence on you.
He encouraged them to regard their city as a place of possibilities.
He encouraged them to be that you can be an entrepreneur, that you could bring the change.
At the end of the day, they had innovative solutions for some of the biggest challenges of their city.
They had entrepreneurial solutions to local problems.
You need expertise and supporters to guide you to develop your business and to start.
For me, entrepreneurship is more than starting a business.
It comes to the creation of social effects.
Mohamed doesn't just sell flowers.
I think he sold hope.
His so-called "peace Park" that will change when he is created, the way people view their city.
Aden hired street kids to help him to rent the bikes and maintain.
He gave them the Chance to escape from the crippling state of "Waithood".
These young companies have a huge impact on their cities.
Thank You Very Much.
But these shells are hard to find.
You are surrounded by Sand, hardly to be seen.
But after a certain time, I had developed a Routine.
I began to see shapes, and patterns, which helped me to collect them.
This developed into a passion to find things, to a love for the Past and archaeology.
And when I finally began to study Egyptology, I realized that Seeing with my naked eyes was not enough.
This led me to using the satellite images.
I had to look at them differently, to be able to the past in a map tracing.
I want to show you, as we can see, for example, different if we use infrared.
This is a site located in the Eastern Egyptian Delta named Mendes.
What you see here, are the chemical changes in the landscape by building materials and activities of the ancient Egyptians.
Itj-taui, the capital of the Ancient Egypt, more than four hundred years, in an era called the Middle Kingdom, about four thousand years ago.
Earlier, the Nile flowed directly to Itj-taui over, and while his running changed and in the direction of the West, shifted, covered the city.
How do you find a buried city in such a vast landscape.
To find you happen to be, the Equivalent would be to find the needle in the haystack, with a blindfold and Baseball gloves.
Therefore, we used NASA's typography data to a map of the landscape to produce, by slight changes,see
where the course of the Nile was formerly located.
We have been working together with Egyptian scientists to the hollow core holes, which you can see here.
This is how the hollow-core drilling in the ice, only instead of layers of climate change, ads, layers, display human habitation.
At a depth of five meters, under a thick layer of mud, we found a dense layer of pottery shards.
We found a dense layer of occupation at the site, which went back to the Middle Kingdom.
We also found evidence for a jeweler to the high society, which shows that it must be a very important city.
It is still not a Itj-taui was there, but we will return to this site soon to draw a card.
To share "knowledge, is the largest of all profession.
There is nothing of the sort in the country."
TED was founded in 1984, BC.
To have the ideas in 1984 BC at a not more long-lost city started, but actually, found again from the top.
You can compare it to the Clam digging on the beach.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Since then, I was fascinated by this incredible language.
But for an outsider, it seems to be as insurmountable as the Great wall of China.
I thought that a new quick way to learn Chinese, would be useful.
Since the 5. Years of age I have learned to draw every single stroke for each of the written characters in the correct sequence.
In the next 15 years, I have learned every day new characters.
Since we only have 5 minutes, would be a faster and easier method is very useful.
A Chinese scholar understands about 20,000 characters.
You need only 1,000 characters for a simple understanding of Scripture.
Today I start with eight characters, in order to show you how the method works.
Are you ready?
You open your mouth as much as possible, until it is square.
This results in a "mouth".
This person goes for a walk.
"The man".
This is a tree.
The "tree".
This is a "mountain".
The "Sun".
The "Moon".
These eight characters radicals.
You are the reason floor, to form a variety of characters.
A Person.
If someone stands behind it, then it means "to follow".
There are more then two "accompaniment" and three mean "crowd".
If a man stretches out his arms wide, then this person says: "It was so 'big'."
The man in the mouth, it is like locked up.
He is a "prisoner", as Jonah in the whale.
A tree stands for a tree. Two trees stand together for a "grove".
Three together stand for a "forest".
You put a plank under the tree and you have a "base".
You place a mouth at the top, it means "idiot".
Easy to remember, because a talking tree is pretty idiotic.
Do you remember the fire?
Two flames, one above the other mean "hot".
Three fire together a lot of "flames".
You will put the fire under two of the trees, it means "burn".
For us, the sun is the source of wealth.
Two suns together make up "wealthy".
Three sparks.
When the sun and the moon appear together, it means "brightness".
In the context, it can also stand for the next day.
The sun rises over the horizon: sunrise.
Door. A Board in the door is for the "bolt".
You place a mouth in the door, it means: "asking questions".
Knock, knock. Is someone there?
This Person sneaks out of the door. "escape", "Dodge".
On the left of the "wife".
Two women stand together for a "dispute".
Beware of three women: that is, "adultery".
We have now met 30 characters.
With this method, you can make from the first eight Radical 32 words.
The next group of eight characters together with a further 32 words.
With a bit of effort, you can learn a few hundred characters as an eight year old Chinese child.
If we can sign this Scripture, we begin to assemble them together.
For example, the mountain and the fire together the fire-mountain, i.e., a "volcano".
We know Japan is the Land of the rising sun.
